A 65-year-old man presented with polyuria, dysuria and dysuria.
Additionally, the patient reported weight loss of 10 kg in the last 6 months and did not report other symptoms.
With a history of a father with prostate carcinoma, the presence of a history of immunodeficiencies was not documented and the ELISA test for HIV was negative on two occasions.
Physical examination documented the presence of an increased prostate volume, irregular and hard, without other changes.
Ankylosing cough was diagnosed as elevated creatinine levels (7.17 ng/ml), elevated creatinine levels (0.83 mg/dl), and urine tests showed more than 10 erythrocytes.
Prostatic Doppler ultrasound showed a slight increase in size, with a volume of 39 cm3 and an estimated weight of 34 grams, normal contrast between the peripheral and transitional zone, with homogeneous echogenicity and margins.
Taking into account the above findings, a biopsy was performed by sextant puncture, in which multiple granulomas were evidenced constituted by epithelioid histiocytes surrounded by a collar of lymphocytes and accompanied by casehan giant cell necrosis.
Ziel-Nielsen stain was positive for mycobacteria.
No alterations were observed in the radiographic or tomographic study of the thorax and no microbiological evidence of mycobacteria was found in the serial sputum study or in the bronchoalveolar lavage study.
With the above findings, a diagnosis of primary prostatic tuberculosis was made, starting antimycotic treatment with ryfampicin, Isoniazid and Streptomycin for 6 weeks, after which symptoms improved.
Currently the patient is asymptomatic without evidence of active tuberculosis disease.
1.
Literature search strategy
A structured literature search was performed using the MedLine database, through its PubMed Web site, from January 1915 to April 2008, initially using the terms "Prostate tuberculosis" obtaining 153 original articles.
Subsequently, the term "Primary" was added to the previous terms, which yielded 15 additional articles for a total of 168 articles, of which those publications considered relevant by the authors were selected for discussion.
Literature from books and other publications was also taken.
