A 36 year old patient was admitted to our Department of Surgery for inguinal hernia. No additional tests were performed.
We performed a careful physical examination in which no tests were performed, so the pertinent complementary examinations were requested.
Ultrasound, CT and MRI allow us to identify both tests in the inguinal canal without objectifying in them images suggestive of tumor.
Seminogram showed azoospermia and in blood analysis the testosterone values were 2.5 ng/ml (2.8-11.5 ng/ml), FSH beta determination: 65 U/I and LH-fet tumor markers: 30U/I.
It was decided to perform bilateral orchidopexy and testicular biopsy.
The biopsy of the right testicle was informed as Leydig cell tumor, reason why we proceeded to perform right inguinal orchiectomy.
The macroscopic appearance of the specimen showed a testicular parenchyma with slightly darker than normal coloration, slight micronodular appearance and fibrous striae on its surface.
Histologically, it corresponded to a Leydig cell tumor occupying the entire testicle, canals and septa among the tumoral masses that showed complete disappearance.
There was no invasion of the albuginea or extratesticular structures, few cellular atypia and mitosis almost absent.
Biopsy of the left testicle showed no abnormalities.
One month after surgery, the patient was treated with Testosterone depot.
Chest X-rays and chest CT scans showed no abnormalities.
Analytical and imaging controls were normal up to 30 months after orchiectomy, a time when several hypodense lesions were detected on ultrasound and CT scan, which were reported as metastases after performing MRI.
The patient was treated with polychemotherapy with Bleomycin, Etoposide and Cisplatino (B.E.P.).
Four cycles were administered, with good tolerance and disappearance of liver lesions after the second cycle.
Twelve years after the intervention the patient is asymptomatic, incorporated into the working life, with good androgenization after a subtitutive treatment, with a Karnofski index of 100%, negative tumor markers in unknown studies and absence of metastases.
