A 43 year old patient with a history of known diabetes two years ago and under treatment with OAD.
As a result of the 1975 Selection of AHT, studies that included the practice of a minute IVU showed a renal mass of IR began.
An angiography was performed which revealed a significant 10 cm mass occupying the mesorenal region and hid an important arteriovenous fistula that caused a large pseudoaneurysmal vascular gap.
In the venous phases of the examination, a marked dilatation of the adrenal arcade was observed.
With the evidence of normal contralateral kidney, left radical nephrectomy with reduced renoaortic lymphadenectomy was performed.
Histopathology showed a clear cell carcinoma of 9 cm, with solid growth pattern with granulomatous areas.
Adenopathies were negative presenting only sinus histiocytosis.
1.
The patient remained asymptomatic until an ultrasound examination in 1982 revealed a tumor mass in the upper pole of the remaining DR.
Pending the imperiousness of performing conservative surgery, a complete angiographic study of the vascular architecture of the organ was requested.
This allowed us to see how the tumor received two very extrasinusal direct arterial branches from the renal artery and two other branches that irrigated the healthy radical tissue that limited the necessary tumor and that we should sacrifice.
1.
Epistaxis2 was performed under in situ hypoglycemia and perfusion with Collins, dissection of the renal artery with ligation of these four branches already programmed on the vascular map.
The pathology was clear cell renal adenocarcinoma 6.5 cms, in contact with the perirenal fat and with negative nodes.
1.
In the following years the patient was admitted to Internal Medicine due to successive diabetic infractions taking advantage to maintain control of his renal pathology by CAT which were normal.
In a last MI readmission for anemia secondary to UGIB due to ulcus bleeding and extreme thinness, a CT scan showed a pancreatic retroperitoneal mass.
We could not distinguish the origin of the same, dying the patient at 18 and 8 years of their respective renal surgeries.
