Patient JSL, male, 64 years old, with a history of hypertension and alcoholism, started dialysis for renal failure in June 1995 at Dr. Gustavo Fricke Hospital.
In January 1997 he was referred to the periodontal specialty of the Dental Service, in order to treat adult periodontitis, which was treated and discharged the same year.
In December 1998 he was readmitted to periodontics for gingival inflammation, finding some foci of localized gingival enlargement of idiopathic origin.
In October 2000, gingivitis was again diagnosed, a condition that was not well resolved during treatment.
Heterotopic kidney transplantation was performed in March 2001 and received cyclosporine A from that date.
In August of the same year he was diagnosed a gingival overgrowth associated with the consumption of drugs June (by March of November A and Superior of the same periodontal groups), in April of the same year (group II) and anterior inferior teeth (group II).
While gingival surgery eliminated the remaining tissue, the disease constantly recurred.
During this period she was treated periodontally without surgical therapy.
In December 2003, after six interventions, the patient suffered from her illness less than seven months after the last intervention, with severe generalized gingival enlargement, which caused the teeth to be hidden.
1.
The patient underwent periodontal treatment, resulting in primary etiological factors of gingival enlargement associated with drugs, and frequently forgotten, the bacterial biofilm.
Surgical therapy was resumed in December 2003 (group II), January (left posterior teeth) and March (left and lower posterior teeth) 2004.
The patient underwent a biopsy, in which a multistratified parakeratinized, thin and irregular epithelium was observed.
Epithelial crests were deeply appreciated in a moderately collagenized connective tissue, highly vascularized with numerous small caliber vessels and inflammatory cells mostly plasma cells and lymphocytes.
1.
After therapy, at 10 months of treatment, the patient had a mild recurrence in the left upper molar, and the remaining tissue was removed in January 2005.
