A 40-year-old woman with a history of smoking cessation, celiac disease, hypothyroidism after treatment with radioactive iodine due to Graves' disease.
In July 2007 a diagnosis of ANCA-associated vasculitis (APG) was made in the context of upper airway involvement (UAA), right supraclavicular palpable mass and abdominal wall at the level of hypogastrium10.
Laboratory findings include erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) greater than 120 mm, c-ANCA positivity, and non-multiresistant enzyme-linked immunosorbent (PRELISA) revealed specificity for urinary proteinase antigen,
He presented left apical lung mass with central necrosis without cavitation.
A supraclavicular mass biopsy was taken and the pathological anatomy revealed necrotizing granulomatous infamation.
Based on the above, the diagnosis of early systemic APG of EUVAS (European vasculitis Registry) or localized was made given the absence of renal involvement.
She was treated with cyclophosphamide and prednisolone with clinical improvement.
He relapsed with respiratory symptoms and pulmonary nodules, but with normal flow volume curve (CFV), under treatment during the years 2008, 2009 and 2010.
It was interpreted as refractory disease and treated with mycophenolate 3 g/day, which is currently the case.
In early May 2011, she began with exertional dyspnea, stridor, wheezing and hemoptoic expectoration.
The laboratory results were normal, including ESR and ANCA.
The VF was performed and showed flattening of inspiratory flows, as well as those described as a curve box.
1.
Computed tomography (CT) of the larynx and trachea showed SGS with tracheal stenosis.
The fibrobronchoscopy showed vesicular stranding activity and sub-optimal level friable mucosa with multiple granulomas and signs of locality with a light of 7 mm.
Although the patient was found to have high doses of medication, she had an intercurrence with a GSE, which differed significantly: it was a new relapse or healing of a seizure injury.
The doubt was settled treatment with three pulses of amiodarone of one gram, and then began to remove complex antigen-antibody.
Laboratory tests showed normal CD20 counts, so 4 doses of rituximab were administered at a dose of 375 mg/m2/week for 4 weeks with excellent tolerance.
Rigid therapeutic bronchoscopy (with dilatation and electrocautery) was performed.
The patient was asymptomatic two years after the event.
