A 47-year-old male with DM diagnosed 9 years ago, currently under treatment with an insulin analogue (a nocturnal dose of insulin glargine and insulin lispro prior to meals).
His history included smoking, mixed dyslipidemia under irregular treatment with ciprofibrate 100 mg/day and microalbuminuria 50 mg/12 h, without hypertension on enalapril 5 mg/day.
feverish sensation, chills, odynophagia, nausea and vomiting occurred in a health center for two days.
She was admitted with physiological solution and crystalline insulin in a minidose scheme.
Laboratory tests at admission included glucose 549 mg/dl, creatinine 1.67 mg/dl, pH 6.91, BE-27, HC03 4.6 (in arterial blood), ketonemia voiding acid + 98 mEq/ml +
The patient was discharged with a diagnosis of diabetic ketoacidosis, and the insulin scheme was maintained intensified and outpatient monitoring was undertaken.
The patient was admitted to Temuco city, consulting 10 days after discharge for unquantified feverish sensation, night sweats, sore throat and pain when mobilizing the neck.
Physical examination revealed a large increase in volume in the posterior region of the neck, which was sensitive, with no inflammatory signs or crepitation, a pubic fetus and a congestive pharynx with little purulent exudate.
Hospitalization was indicated with the diagnosis of MD, pharyngitis pultacea and cervical mass under study.
Blood glucose 270 mg/dl, creatinine 0.8 mg/d, hematocrit 35.7%, leukocytes 18800 per mm3, ESR 91 mm/h, CRP 309 mg/L. Intravenous infusion was initiated with physiological ENT solution.
Treatment was initiated with intravenous sodium penicillin 20 million U/day, cloxacillin 12 g EV/day and ceftriaxone 2 g EV/day.
Cervical volume increase was studied with cervical ultrasonography, which showed a collection in the posterior compartment of the neck and multislice computerized axial tomography of the neck in which an increase in volume of the posterior neck with posterior aspect of the neck was observed.
1.
Evaluated together with otorhinolaryngologist and head and neck surgeon, it was decided to perform surgical drainage of the collection.
On the second day of hospitalization, two incisions were made in the posterior region of the neck, draining purulent fluid.
No evidence of necrosis or gas was found.
Culture of secretion was obtained and Streptococcus group B was isolated. Blood cultures were negative.
After one week with IV antibiotics, Penrose drains stopped delivering secretion and were removed.
The exploration of the incisions was satisfactory.
She was discharged with oral antibiotic for another week (Ampicillin/Sulfur).
