This is a 36-year-old pregnant woman, 27 weeks of gestation, from the municipality of Moniquirá (Boyacá), La Carolina vereda, located at a temperature of 1,700 m.s.
PCR tests in blood samples with the TcH2AF-R and S35-S36 (no data are presented) primers were positive for T. cruzi, while the TCII negative for TCII was not detected by PCR
The infant microhealing and serological tests (ELISA) taken at two months of age were negative.
PCR tests in blood samples of the child with TcH2AF-R and S35-S36 (the data are not presented) primers were positive for T. cruzi.
The PCR TC/TCI/TCII test amplified fragments of 350 and 300 bp corresponding to groups I and II (not the 300 bp band 1.5 times more intense).
To rule out possible vector transmission, an active search for triatomines was performed at the patient's home and peridomicile, and a vegetation scan with an entomological net during the months of 2006, June, 2007 and December.
It is important to point out that the house of the patient, with asbestos roof, bricks walls with a kernel and floor of land, is located 4 km from the urban hull Monmigo Primary Care, in a region that no longer has
Cups isolated from the mother and her child
The mother's blood culture was positive seven weeks after sample collection.
The blood culture performed on the child at two months of age became positive one month and 23 days after sample collection, and that performed at four months of age and 14 days later became positive 3 months later.
In all isolates analyzed by PCR test TcH2AF-R specific for T. cruzi (9.10), the expected band of 230 bp was obtained as amplification product.
The results of the TC/TCI/TCII test (13) demonstrated that the corresponding isolations T of the mother belong to the group T. cruzi I, with the characteristic amplification band 350 bp, while evidenced in the mixed groups I.
Densitometry analyses of the intensity of the amplified fragments with the TC/TCI/TCII primers showed that the 350-bp band was 1.45 times more intense than the 300-bp band, unlike the same blood test.
1.
PHC-PCR
Thirty-five amplification fragments with a molecular size ranging from 263 to 2200 bp were selected, obtained with both primers based on their resolution, severity and separate amplification reactions.
As shown in Figures 3 to 6, both primers generated polymorphous patterns that allowed correlating the components of groups I and II.
The amplification of the DNA of hemoglobin isolated in the hemocultive AP-PCR with the primer of b-globin showed 14 amplification fragments between 460 and 2,220 bp of molecular size.
The same amplification profile was observed in the sample from the mother and her child, which agreed with the pattern of amplification observed in the strains of the T. cruzi I group used as control IRHOMA / fragment sharing 75% (8OMSE).
1.
On the other hand, when they compare the amplification of the isolates from the mother, her child, and of the strains Tunisia THO/COVdos, with 90% IR. cruzi I initiated by the department TCO/CO/MO/
When amplification was performed with the 16S rRNA primer, 21 fragments of 263 to 1,200 bp were analyzed.
In the strains isolated from the mother's and her child's hemocultive, an identical profile of nine bands was found.
Similarly, when comparing the amplification strain of isolates from the mother and that of IRHO/CO strains isolated from T. cruzi Department versus T. cruzi I from Bodos/CO/07/OMV, this amplified fragments also.
1.
On the other hand, in vitro PF-PCR analysis decreases using both primers in separate reactions to amplify mixtures of DNA coming from groups I and II DNA specific primers showed that the proportion of DNA fragments in group I disappears when
Variability analysis
1.
Groups I and II were clearly separated according to their genetic distance 0.1 and 0.17, respectively.
