Female patient, 44 years old, diagnosed with Emotional Instability Disorder of Personality to Type of Seizure (F60.31, CI-10) (11) with sporadic consumption of alcohol and history of mental health
After three days without any news, the family finds her at home unconsciously with a large number of pills of her treatment and beer bottles.
With normal head CT enters the intensive care unit for five days.
Complications included rhabdolysis, acute renal failure and pneumonia secondary to self-intoxication.
Symptomatic support treatment and subsequent transfer to the Internal Medicine Department, two days of somatic stabilization and voluntary transfer to the Psychiatry Department.
After six psychiatric hospitalization, asymptomatic, she remained only amnesia of the specific episode, psychologically stable at discharge, treatment with duloxetine 60 mg.
A week later the patient came to the Mental Health Center complaining of unspecific discomfort of the patient for 3 days, insomnia, perplexity, bizarre behavior and referentiality with a neighbor Fearing the diagnosis Service.
In this second psychiatric admission the symptomatic picture evolves rapidly towards a confusional state and an acute cognitive deterioration with marked disconnection of the environment for which it proceeds to his transfer to the Service of Neurology finally becoming affiliated a medical center
Among the tests performed during his admission to Neurology, we highlight an EEG with short-term bifrontal slow wave sprouts and a brain MRI with a signal alteration of the white matter both deep intensity and subcortical high intensity.
Six months later, cognitive impairment of cortical characteristics was maintained, with marked impairment of executive function and memory function in the recording process.
Until today, and during these four years, neurological monitoring has been maintained in outpatient clinics, the patient is dependent on activities of daily living requiring continuous supervision for his cognitive status that has not improved significantly.
Since then, it has not required follow-up at the Mental Health Center.
