A 46-year-old man with PD performed through a self-locating catheter for five years.
After four years on PD, a periodic examination revealed a small interruption or disappearance of the catheter's radiopaque line, but the presence of dialysate leakage was ruled out and the technique continued uneventful.
Several months later, the patient began to report a greater number of alarms in the cycling, almost all due to problems in the drenning phase.
A catheter inspection showed that the missing portion of the radiopaque line had increased, as well as the collapse of the catheter at this point when suction was applied (as with the cycler during the drip phase).
Once again, we used the repair kit, this time with some variations.
We clip the catheter near the skin line and disconnect the transfer line.
We then place air through a syringe through the lumen and place a new clamp, leaving the problematic area inflated between the clamps.
We placed the silicone mold around this zone and filled it with adhesive glue.
We put in a new transfer line.
After 24 hours, clamps were removed and the patient resumed therapy with a significant reduction in the number of alarms.
1.
Clinical summary
We present five repair procedures in five peritoneal catheters.
The mean age of the patients (four men and one woman) was 56 years, three of whom were on PD and two on continuous ambulatory PD.
The catheters had been installed in situ for one month, six years, four years and nine months, three and five years, respectively.
In patients 1 and 3, the broken catheter was repaired by adding the catheter extension segment of the kit.
They were protected with prophylactic antibiotic treatment not by the repair procedure, but by the history of accidental disconnection.
In patients 2 and 4, the kit was used to prevent future complications.
Our personal application in patient 5 to his problems with the cycling.
Of the patients suffering from peritonitis or any other infectious complication, there were no dialysate leaks after several months of follow-up.
