A 19-year-old woman who was admitted to the Mental Health Hospitalization Unit for conduct disorder in the family environment.
Family history: grandmother with anxiety-depressive syndrome.
Master: suicide attempt by gas inhalation five years before and current treatment for anxiety-depressive syndrome and hypothyroidism.
Personal history: Oligoamnios, preterm birth, low birth weight (2070 g), heterotopic pregnancy requiring phototherapy, 202 fifth proglottoplasty with septacibinitis, clinoctyly mutation of third velocities,
He returned at nine months, controlled sphincters at two and a half years, was autonomous to eat at two and a half years, to dress at six years and to sit at nine years.
Local situs solitus was diagnosed by ultrasound.
She was diagnosed with acute and transient psychotic disorder (F23 CIE 10) and paranoid schizophrenia (F20 CIE 10), and since she was 16 years old has been followed up with Child and Adolescent Mental Health.
The patient was followed up for a neurological disorder due to developmental delay and language delay. He began speaking at the age of four and developed dyslexia that required speech therapy.
At seven years of age, intelligence was measured by Raven's progressive matrices, which yielded values within the average, and at ten years of age by WISC-R, obtaining the following results: total intellectual intelligence index of 72.
Current illness: Upon admission to the Hospitalization Unit, the patient presented ideation of heteroaggregative colitis in a non-structured fashion, auditory feedback, labile affectivity and child behavior.
Complementary tests performed (biochemistry with vitamin B12, folic acid and ceruloplasmin levels, urine analysis, thyroid function tests, proteins and electroencephalogram were normal, except platelets and leukopenia were normal.
Cranial computed tomography showed cavum septum p septum (as detected at 3 years of age) of 2.6 cm in size.
1.
An attempt was made to assess intelligence using WAIS-III, and although the patient was interested, the test could not be answered due to the impossibility of obtaining an adequate assessment because it gave tangentially answers to associations.
When performing Raven's matrices, instead of following the logical order of the matrix grouped by colors or shapes.
The difficulties to understand and to perform the test for cognitive side effects were found and to understand the related patient. It seemed that she had in her treatment, which was progressively reduced until suspension, and the instructions were passed with no similar results.
The clinical impression was of moderate cognitive impairment.
One month after the total cessation of treatment, the same operational difficulty persists in neuropsychological tests.
The patient was diagnosed with hebephrenic schizophrenia (F20.1 ICN10).
