A 37-year-old man was referred to us for the first time in September 2009 from the Rehabilitation Service of our hospital for weight loss assessment.
The multidisciplinary rehabilitation team identified overweight as a negative factor for functional recovery and success in achieving the goals proposed in their rehabilitation program.
In 2000, after a traffic accident, the patient suffered an incomplete spinal cord injury, which resulted in paraplegia at the Ll motor level and at the L3 sensory level.
The patient, when evaluated for the first time in our consultations, reports that since always he has had excess weight, his weight prior to the traffic accident was 110 kg. As a result of the injury, he realized weight loss and weight loss.
He had made several attempts to lose weight without success.
His weight was 150 kg and his height was 1.83 cm2, his body mass index (BMI) was 44.08 kg/2, his waist was 140 cm.
Laboratory tests showed normal renal and hepatic function, fasting glucose 82 mg/dl, total cholesterol 165 mg/dl and triglycerides 119 mg/dl.
Taking into account their high risk of developing cormobilities and high mortality associated with their morbid obesity, along with their maturity and the satisfactory fulfillment of hygienic-dietetic regimes, Endocrinology and Clinical Surgery units finally underwent an evaluation.
After ruling out the absence of alterations in the spicoaffective sphere or surgical contraindications, the case was approved and underwent laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass in October 2011.
After bariatric surgery the patient has had a significant weight loss, with a percentage of weight loss of 44% of his body weight after two years.
Its current weight is 84 kg corresponding to a BMI 25.08 kg/m2.
Despite physical limitations secondary to paraplegia, the patient has resumed swimming.
Analytically, the patient did not present with urinary deficiency or abnormalities in the complete blood count.
As post-surgical complications, she has a mild gastroesophageal reflux disease treated with daily proton pump inhibitors (PPIs).
