A 23-year-old woman with a history of irritable bowel syndrome and rhinoconjunctivitis in spring for two years.
He came to our clinic referring rhinoconjunctivitis of two years of evolution after contact with cats.
This last year he had a cat at home for three days presenting oculonasal itching, pharyngeal itching with a sensation of bolus in the throat and continuous irritative cough together with accompanying respiratory distress since the introduction of the cat at home.
We performed a study consisting of:
Curickum pigmentosa opus in prickum with inhalants batteries according to the protocol of our service Cherax pneumatic prickum alterna Uterony Plataficiinus, notlebstea epithelium, Tapocumpus vulgare Plantun; Aspergillus,
Epithelioidosis fungoides parteronysinus is a positive result for this condition.
Positive results for D. pteronyssinus, D. farinae, dog and cat epithelium, Quercus pollen, Olea europae and Cupressus arizonica.
-To determine total IgE 521 kU/L and specific by CAP technique (Pharmacia- CAP System): olivocore pollen 29.3 kU/L; epithelia casserinus p. a
- Determination of baseline serum tryptase (endoprotease present in mast cells in an exclusive way that is used as a marker of anaphylactic reaction) 5 ng/l (within normal limits).
Twenty minutes after performing the TPS, the patient presented intense itching and redness of the eye, followed by dysphonia and sensation of pharyngeal occupation.
Oropharyngeal examination revealed tongue and palate velum edema without accompanying uvula edema, with normal cardiopulmonary auscultation.
Oxygen saturation 98%, heart rate 128 bpm and blood pressure 90/50.
0.5 mg subcutaneously administered dechlorpheniramine 1 intravenous ampoule and 40 mg intravenous methylprednisolone.
Serum tryptase determination at two hours of reaction: 9.13 ng/l, at three hours of the same 3.36 ng/l.
Dea, et al. suspected that the reaction was due to the accumulation of mediators, PTS was performed with a battery of inhaled medications administered to europe, removing the extract of cat epithelium from it, resulting positive
It was decided to perform PTS with cat epithelium extract at different concentrations, for this reason serial dilutions were made from a concentration of 82.5 mcg/ml, starting at 1/100.
A few minutes later, the patient complained of intense itching, nasal obstruction, and a sensation of dry throat with mild difficulty in swallowing.
Oxygen saturation was 99%, with heart rate 112 bpm and blood pressure 110/60.
We proceeded to administer 0.3 mg subcutaneous route and 1 intravenous ampoulechlorpheniramine, yielding the clinical picture at approximately half an hour.
-Ralization of SDS-PAGE immunoblotting under non-reducing conditions (absence 2-mercaptoethanol).
1.
The SDS-PAGE immunoblotting results obtained with the cat epithelium extract allow us to point out the specific IgE fixation in bands of 99 kDa, 80 kDa and 21 kDa.
The latter is most likely to be Fel d 18 (higher emphasis on cat epithelium); bands with higher molecular mass are surely Fel d 1 aggregation products.
The molecular mass of any of these bands coincides with that of albumin.
