We report the case of a 23-year-old man who was admitted to the emergency department of our hospital with behavioural changes in the street.
His parents reported a month ago that the patient had progressively decreased his sleep hours, as well as verbalized ideas of a mechanical nature.
It seemed to lead a disorganized life, neglecting basic tasks, excessive dedication to videogames and poor nutrition.
The interview showed hostile, supicious, and interpretative with the environment, especially with the colors, and even indicated that it was "blue" .
Sensory impairment
She had been under psychiatric follow-up for three years due to various psychotic episodes and mental disorders, with good response to psychopharmacological treatment, which she had abandoned in recent months.
At the unit, however, the patient was suspicious.
He explained what happened as a result of the perception of "false tracks" that led him to warn certain people that they were in danger.
His mother reported having been under psychiatric treatment for dysthymia for several years, while his father had been diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive disorder in the past.
The relatives did not report any alteration in the development of the patient, although he himself recognized that a "rare animal" had always been felt.
He recalled the school stage as an "unfaith", presenting a poor management of interpersonal relationships, to the point of recognizing that he gave "phobia" to the face of people.
That is why since adolescence he had interpersonal contact almost exclusively through online computer games.
As income advanced, he was more distended, although he said he felt uncomfortable surrounded by people.
He also said that he was disturbing by the sound of the telephony tube located in one of the unit's common rooms, which he perceived clearly.
As a coping strategy in times of stress, she walked through the corridor following a routine sequence that could last several hours and which, as she said, helped her to become infected.
He reported having usually "paranoias" associated with his behavior prior to admission.
She related the behavioral episode with a deep feeling of loneliness and frustration for her inability to maintain stable interpersonal relationships.
When asked about the relationship between perception and color manifested in the emergency service, he answered that it was the letter translated from a song (in English the word "blue" has two meanings: blue and sad.
When saying feeling blue, the patient really expressed a feeling of sadness).
The patient responded well to treatment, although both symptoms and thought rigidity never disappeared.
Table 1 shows the comparison of the results in the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) (30), the Positive Syndrome Scale of Patients (PANSS) and three (PANSS) (32)
Table 2 shows a comparison between the schizophrenia and autism criteria shared in the three cases described.
