A 35-year-old man presented to the Urology Department with a 2.5 cm nodule in the left paratesticular region.
Three years earlier, he had been admitted to our hospital with a left parietal ACVA presenting loss of strength in the right hemibody and difficulty speaking.
A hypodense area was observed in the anterior arm of the left internal white capsule on computerized axial tomography (CAT) of the skull, as well as other more subtle areas in the frontal-parietal region.
After contrast administration, no images compatible with aneurysm were observed, but a tortuosity was observed in the right middle cerebral artery that could correspond either to a thrombus or to a partial volume effect in the context of a tn
Magnetic resonance angiography showed that the middle cerebral arteries were asymmetric in terms of signal, with the left showing a decrease in signal throughout its course, without stenosis.
The electrocardiogram showed no abnormalities.
Carotid ultrasound, cerebral and supra-aortic trunk arteriography and transesophageal echocardiography were also normal.
In the blood analytical determinations, all parameters were normal, including the studies performed to arrive at an etiologic diagnosis such as: lupus anticoagulant, homocysteine, anticardiolipin antibodies, anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies anti-proteinase, anti-PRCA, anti-neutrophils antibodies anti-(α2, anti-neutrophils), S.
In short, this is a young patient who presents with ACVA in the territory of the left middle cerebral artery of unknown etiology.
At present, the patient presents a left paratesticular mass.
Testicular ultrasound showed thickening of the cord persistent left.
Testicles are normal in size and morphology.
A study of the magnetic resonance was carried out, objectifying in the left cord a nodule with high signal behavior in T1 and T2 sequences.
After contrast administration, peripheral enhancement occurs with a hypointense area in the center that represents an avascular necrosis area.
The diagnostic possibilities were two: liposarcoma of the cord is persistent vasculitis.
1.
Performing cord biopsy is persistent testicle.
Macroscopically, a solid nodular lesion of whitish color is observed, with irregular zone to blistery affecting medium zone measuring 4 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm. Histologically, an irregular necrotizing necrosis is observed.
The inflammatory infiltrate is transmural and causes an almost total obliteration of the vascular lumen.
Peripherally, fibrosis, fat necrosis and acute and chronic inflammatory infiltrate are observed in adjacent soft tissues.
Ziehl-Neelsen stain was performed and no alcohol resistant bacilli were observed.
The anatomopathological diagnosis is necrotizing granulomatous vasculitis in the paratesticular zone.
No significant alterations were identified in the testicle biopsy.
1.
The patient did not present post-operative complications and was treated with Detection a dose of 30 mg/day.
Currently, after 16 months of evolution, the patient has no symptoms and continues with maintenance doses (6 mg/day).
