A 56-year-old woman presented with abdominal discomfort and asthenia for several months.
Physical examination revealed no pathological findings.
Analytical study revealed no abnormalities.
Simple abdominal X-rays reveal small radiopaque images of density ccalc corresponding to the hepatic area, which are seen on ultrasound and CAT scans with several hypoechoic lesions and between 0.5 cm interpreted as 1.5 lobes of liver.
Examinations to rule out a primary breast and gastrointestinal tumor were negative.
The patient underwent exploratory laparotomy in which several whitish lesions were visualized, protruding on the surface of the hepatic lobes, pathology to surface samples for study which were analyzed.
1.
Anatomopathological study
The samples correspond to two wedge-shaped fragments of 1.5 cm and 1 cm in dimensions, with a white deposit in the central zone and brown in the periphery.
At cutting, two whitish lesions with defined limits and firm consistency surrounded by brown tissue were observed.
Tissue samples selected for microscopic study were fixed in 10% aqueous formaldehyde for 24 hours and embedded in paraffin.
Histological sections were obtained from 3⁄4n with thickness stained with hematoxylin-eosin.
Other sections were mounted on doors electrically loaded and intended for immunohistochemical study, which was performed in a window-type apparatus.
Microscopically, a lesion with solid growth pattern and margins occupying partially or totally the venular lumens and biliary stenosis is observed, respecting the portal spaces and to some extent the trabeculae
They alter cellular areas with other fibrous areas.
Dominant vesicles affect cytoplasm of broad and well-defined cytoplasms, sometimes with single or multiple vacuums, occasionally occupied by isolated defects and vesicular nuclei.
Most tumor cells express strong immunopositivity against vascular markers FVIII, CD 31 and CD 34 and occasionally against cytokeratin antibody.
1.
The patient has not received treatment and lesions have remained stable until now, year and half after diagnosis.
