A 2-day-old man developed pustular lesions on his face that subsequently extended to the scalp and trunk.
She presented axillary and cervical lymphadenopathy, and the BCG vaccine injection site and ulceration and superinfection.
At 2 months she presented pyodermitis treated with flucloxacillin.
The patient continued with recurrent impetus and algorrhoea, with culture positive for oxacillin-sensitive S. aureus.
The patient presented 2 pneumonias (at 7 and 11 months of age) and presented acute pneumonia (AOM) at 8 and 13 months.
At one year of age, he was evaluated in an immunology clinic where he highlighted prominent forehead, depressed nasal bridge, BCG delayed acromegalic acquisition, bilateral psychomotor retardation, generalized adeno-ermatous lesions that flowed.
Tests revealed leukocytosis of 17,600 xmm3, 25% eosinophils, ESR 12 ml/hr, HIV (-), C3 and C4 normal, IgA normal, IgG and IgM elevated over 25,340 UI IgE to age,
A skin biopsy showed lymphocytic infiltrate around dermal capillary vessels and mild keratosis concluding in mild lymphocytic perivasculitis.
One year after birth, a simple craniosis was diagnosed (which required a positive surgical abscess in the right lung area, without endocratic hypertension, did not require treatment), and at 18 months the patient was hospitalized for pleural drainage pneumonia.
Between 2 and 5 years old, the patient presented recurrent obstructive bronchial syndrome (OSBO) treated with inhaled corticosteroids and bronchodilators.
He continued with persistent dermatitis with poor response to topical treatment and lesions compatible with onychomycosis in the hands with a direct mycological yeast positive with Candida, treated with antifungals.
At 6 years she had pneumonia with good antibiotic response by oral route.
The patient presented right cervical volume increase 3x4 cm, painful, gummy, fluctuating and was managed with drainage and intravenous antibiotics.
Primary upper and lower retention was detected with ectopic eruption of permanent dentition.
Currently, at 7 years of age, the patient is in good general condition and persists with some skin lesions and occasional vague hair loss.
