We report the case of a 53-year-old man who had been transferred to Haiti since October 2013 for work reasons.
Among its pathological antecedents stands out a sick leave due to common contingency in February 2014 for confirmed dengue disease, with clinical recovery and reincorporation to its job.
On May 6, 2014, after suffering abundant mosquito bites, she suddenly started high fever and odynophagia with subsequent skin rash and polyarthralgia.
Dengue infection was ruled out.
He returned to Spain, was on sick leave due to common contingencies and was studied in the Tropical Diseases Department of the Hospital Cicencia de Barcelona.
Physical examination revealed hyperemia of the oropharynx and skin rash, which evolved favorably as fever; polyarthralgias persisted and intense asthenia persisted.
We highlight among the complementary examinations performed mild leukopenia, serology Chikungunya IgM and IgG and determination of viral RNA by RT-PCR positive.
Dengue PCR negative.
He was diagnosed with uncomplicated Chikungunya fever virus acquired in Haiti and arthralgias reactive to the infectious process, meeting epidemiological, clinical and laboratory criteria.
The patient followed medical control in the Public Health Service and since July 2014 with Mutua FREMAP, having the concerted company covering the common contingency with this entity10.
On October 16, a request for a contingency determination was sent to the Medical Services of FREMAP, indicating that the sick leave was recognized as occupational.
After the global assessment of the process from the epidemiological, medical and occupational point of view, the contingency change to Work Accident was accepted.
The clinical course was slow and fluctuating, with persistent asthenia and limiting polyarthralgia, predominantly affecting hands and feet.
Arthritis was ruled out with symptomatic treatment.
In March 2015 she manifested a clear improvement with the seasonal change.
Analytical control with blood count and biochemical including ESR, CRP and interleukin 6 was requested, without showing significant alterations.
On April 14, 2015 the patient was discharged from the hospital and in July a control was carried out confirming the clinical recovery.
He has not so far requested a new visit.
