A three-month-old male, mestizo canine patient (bed), with a history of having been sick from the street a month before, was admitted to the High Geriatric Hospital.
The reason for consultation was an intense pruritus manifested as scratch, so she was under treatment with antihistamines.
In addition, he had an abundant and generalized skin peeling and marked decay.
Upon examination, a dog in poor general condition was found, with normal manifestations and signs of generalized skin and lymphadenopathy, vital signs, affine and prominent abdomen to the sealant.
The hair coat was whistling and had excoriations throughout the body, extensive areas of alopecia, abundant scabs and pruritic papular lesions with crusts.
1.
A direct microscopic examination of skin and hair scraping revealed abundant eggs and juvenile and adult forms of mites of the species S. scai.
1.
The patient was prescribed medication to treat mental illness.
During the consultation, the pet owner reported that he and all members of his family group had persistent pruritic lesions.
Suspicion of zoonotic transmission was referred to the Dr. Sótero del Rio Hospital for evaluation.
In the Infectious Diseases Unit, anamnesis and physical examination were performed on the father, mother and four daughters of five months and four, seven and 12 years old.
The mother reported that one week after she had adopted the dog, she noticed the appearance of crusted papules, very pruriginous in attachments, which then spread to the rest of the body.
A few days later, the patient developed the same symptoms and developed crusted dermatitis and right-sided dermatitis.
Finally, two weeks after the dog's admission to the house, similar and generalized lesions appeared in all daughters and even in the grandmother, who visited the house to take care of the girls.
The lesions described were detected in the physical examination of both parents and daughters.
1.
A skin scraping for acarotest (human and canine) was performed and analyzed in the Microbiology Laboratory of the Pontifical Catholic University (PUC), with confirmation of results and veterinary expert report by public health.
A blood count was performed on each member of the family group.
The family, including the grandmother, was treated with two pulses of 5% permethrin, except for the infant and the breastfeeding mother, who received two pulses of 6% petroleum jelly.
In both cases it was indicated to apply the product three consecutive days, rest four days and repeat it three other days.
The father and grandmother were treated with two pulses of oral convergence excess due to persistent lesions.
The hemogram showed none of them.
We detected the presence of S. scai in the mite test performed on the infant (La S. Microbiología de PUC), with entomological confirmation in the ISP, which showed transmission.
1.
The owners then informed that the dog died a few weeks after starting treatment.
