A 59-year-old male, born in Buenos Aires, a seller of commerce, had not traveled outside the city in the last four years, had no pets, had a balanced meal, with four meals a day.
She had no significant past medical history.
Establishment, adduction, and internal rotation of a patient’s mental health problem.
Subsequently, he presented an erythematous plaque in the anterior thoracic region of 4 cm in diameter, not indurated, without superficial inflammatory signs.
He had no fever, weight loss, hemoptysis, or previous history of trauma.
An ultrasound of blade tissues showed a heterogeneous image of 3.89 cm in the anterior region of the right hemithorax, located 2.46 cm under the skin, compatible with colitis.
There were no lesions in the ipsilateral upper limb, adenopathies, heart murmur or bone pains.
It began with antimicrobial treatment (cephalexin 1 gram every 12 hours); at 48 hours he had a fever record of 38.6°C and a tumor in the right pectoral region.
Laboratory tests showed leukocytes 16,600/mm3 (81% neutrophils 70 segmented), hematocrit 40%, hemoglobin 12.3 g% (CMV 8-GOP function), serum creatinine levels 250,000 and platelet count 110 mm/dL.
A mediastinal widening was observed in the chest X-ray, so a chest and neck CT with ev contrast medium was requested, which demonstrated in the anterior wall of the right hemithorax a lesion with plug tissue density.
This lesion extended to the anterior and superior mediastinum, near the great vessels and was associated with densitometric changes in the mediastinal fat.
1.
A CT-guided aspiration puncture was performed, obtaining 25 ml of purulent material from the parietal collection and 7 ml of the mediastinal collection. Each patient was referred to microbiological study and the vancomycin gczi regime was adjusted 8 hours.
1.
Pectoral abscess was surgically removed.
Gram stain revealed Gram-positive cocci grouped into clusters and on the third day of treatment the presence of oxacillin-susceptible aureus, cephaloclindamoxacin and ciprofloxacin, triacyl.
Ziehl-Neelsen, Giemsa and Gomori-G staining were negative.
The antimicrobial treatment indicated to cefazolin 2 g every 8 hours ev was modified.
Serology for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and VDRL were non-reactive.
Urocultive, hemocultive, cultures for mycobacteria and purulent material were negative.
A two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiogram showed no valvular vegetations.
Abdominal ultrasound showed no abnormalities.
After 72 hours she was afflicted with evident clinical improvement.
Given the good post-surgical response and having isolated S. aureus sensitive septate infection in all samples, treatment was changed to oral cefalexin 1 g every 8 hours, with favorable evolution.
