A 29-year-old woman, healthy, with no morbid history, in the process of breastfeeding her four-month-old child.
Proceeding from the suburban area of Villa Alemana, Valparaiso Region.
She lives in a house that has drinking water and catechnetate; she has a dog, two rabbits and a rabbit as pets.
As a housewife, she is the one who prepares food.
In the last month, separated by fifteen days, there were two trips to the city of Talcahuano, Concepción, to the consequences of the feast of a family member occurred in the 2010 earthquake.
The patient visited the Peripheral Alirium of Villaemana with two specimens of worms eliminated by the mouth for seven days.
To remove him, he was asleep and awoke when he felt a very strange sensation in his throat and then in his mouth; before the movement of a foreign body in his mouth, his tongue thrust him.
He left him on his dressing-gown where he noticed that he was screwed up.
Subsequently, a second copy was removed, in both cases without cough, expectoration or vomiting.
During the day he had presented general malaise, nausea, watery diarrhea, hypoxia, dyspepsia, meteorism and fever.
Having consumed raw hake eleven days ago and having consumed raw vegetables in the family.
The family was composed of six components: her husband, her sister (18 years old), three children of nine and five years old and the child under four months old, showed no signs or symptoms.
The treating physician prescribed mebendazole 100 mg twice a day for three days.
1.
Due to the morphometric characteristics of the consulting room laboratory, the specimens corresponded to A. lumoides in juvenile stage.
Serial coproparasitic examination was also performed, which was negative.
One of the specimens of the eliminated worms was sent to the Parasitology Laboratory of the School of Medicine of the University of Valparaiso to check the diagnosis.
A morphometric study was carried out, highlighting its colorillento, a cylindrical shape with sharp reddish ends, 3.9 cm long and 1.0 mm wide.
Microscopically, it was verified the presence of three lips in the anterior extreme; one dorsal with two papillae and with only one each in the two ventrolateral lips3 surrounding the oral cavity.
1.
In order to better observe the characteristics of the worm, the specimen was subjected to diaphanization in Amann lactophenol.
The diagnosis was corroborated by microscopic examination of the three lips that surround the oral cavity and the characteristics of the digestive tract due to transparency of the rectum length surrounding the flat intestine.
1.
Once the final diagnosis was obtained, a telephone interview was conducted with the patient. Prophylactic measures were indicated to avoid reinfection and control was suggested through copro-parasitic examination which revealed serious forms of infection
As a complementary investigation serial coproparasitic examination was carried out on the members of their family group, their sister, being the vacuolated forms of B. hominis and Entamoeba coli cysts in negative members
