Newborn of 34 years old mother, housewife.
Product of the fourth pregnancy, with regular prenatal care, with no history of importance.
Three days prior to delivery, the patient presented fever syndrome studied and dengue fever non-severe alarm (hemate = 40% and platelets = 68 000/mm3).
On the second day of the disease, labor began, with intact membranes. A newborn of 39 weeks of gestational age, female, with a normal Apgar score of 8/9, 50 minutes after birth was born weighing 8/9, 30 minutes after birth.
The fourth day of life had a fever of 38.5 °C that stopped using paracetamol and simple physical means; she was hospitalized in the rural hospital of the Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS).
Prospectra and protocol studies of febrile syndrome were carried out, finding a decrease of platelets, so it was diagnosed early neonatal sepsis starting treatment with double antimicrobial scheme with empirical ampicillin and amika.
On the second day of hospitalization, the patient remained febrile.
On that same day, the patient presented with abdominal discomfort and chrocia; moreover, the platelet count showed an abrupt decrease in platelets, so, in view of the maternal history of dengue, neonatal dengue was suspected and the decision was made.
The patient was admitted to the emergency room with fever, polypnea, generalized capillary rash, normotensive abdomen, peptic ulcer disease with 38 perioral lesions, the lung fields, hepatomegaly, ecchymequilibrium.
There is no evidence of active bleeding.
Hematic biometry was performed, reporting severe thrombocytopenia (without hemoconcentration data).
Liver function tests showed acute inflammatory reaction, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (GSR) 1 mm/h, C-reactive protein 12 mg/dl. A serological sample for dengue was taken.
1.
The clinical course was satisfactory and the patient was afflicted with palliative care throughout his hospital stay.
Managing support only.
Daily blood biometry controls were performed, which showed progressive improvement in platelet count.
Transfontanellar ultrasound showed no bleeding or central nervous system lesions.
Abdominal ultrasound for serositis data was reported without evidence of free fluid in the abdominal cavity, pelvis or pleural effusion.
Dengue serology results were obtained with the presence of NS1 antigen, confirming vertical transmission.
Given the clinical improvement and biochemical parameters, it was decided that the patient improved and was asymptomatic at seven days of hospital stay.
