Female patient, with no relevant history, 21 months old.
Displacement of the mother who initiates her current condition 11 days prior to admission, when she suddenly detects gait disturbance, described as “stretching her left foot”; this did not cause loss of balance,
Likewise, there is weakness of the ipsilateral arm with decreased movements and disability to manipulate objects, characterized by moving them to the other hand, denies the possibility to locate accurately if it is predominantly proximal or distal, without exacerbation, or calendar.
Neurological examination revealed preserved upper functions, unaltered cranial nerves, sensory system —which can be assessed by the patient's age and cooperation— normal. Muscle inspection found the four limbs with normal proximal hemibody/5.
There is no difficulty in maintaining the standing without support.
Walking is observed without increasing the base of support, with a symmetrical bilateral contact phase, but with discrete external rotation of the entire left pelvic limb with foot drop by hitting the ground with the entire knee and without movements.
You can walk without support.
Contractive fixations bilateral absent, Babinski negative, brachymal reflex 2/4, bicipital reflex 2/4, tricipital reflex 2/4, patellar reflex 2/4, aquile 2/4
Nuchal rigidity, Brudsinski's sign and Kig negative sign.
X-rays of the spine and hip were requested, which were reported as normal. A simple computed tomography (CT) of the skull was requested. There was no radiographic finding suggestive of the origin of the spinal cord lesion i.e., a contrast x-ray space with an
1.
The patient was prepared and a biopsy was performed. Extracellularity samples were taken for analysis by the Department of chromatin. No diffuse fibrotic necrosis was observed. No intramedullary hypercellularity was observed with irregular areas of hemorrhage.
1.
Subsequently, the patient was sent to a specialized center for disease in the ES.
The sample is sent to pathology where there are two positive mitoses, reclassifying WHO tumor into one grade III.
