This is a 45-year-old single male patient with genitalia and mother who, while taking care of a child under 5 years old, places his pencil in the place where he resides, was surprised by the mother of the little son
The defendant accepts to have committed the fact and says he has no explanation of what happened.
Among his antecedents it was proved that he was admitted in the year 2003 in the Psychiatric Hospital of Havana for an Occasional Disorder of Personality.
Love being the product of a multiple pregnancy (trillizos) from which he only survived.
He studied in special education reaching 9 grade, then dropped out of school.
Father orphan when she was 5 years old.
Traumatic brain injury at age 20 with loss of consciousness and attention by neurology.
It has been unemployed for several years.
As she explained, she had a single relationship with her youth.
It was attached to our institution with the objective of performing a forensic psychiatric evaluation.
The acting psychiatrist experts requested an evaluation by the Clinical Neurophysiology Laboratory where a clinical interview was conducted to the patient, an EEG was recorded in basal conditions in awake state using the Medickeur Walker program.
Three minutes were recorded with eyes closed, two minutes with eyes open, three minutes during hyperventilation and two minutes of recovery.
We selected 20 to 24 windows of the state of closed eyes, free of artifacts and proceeded to the quantitative analysis of EEG comparing individuals of the same age and sex and that are part of the Cuban normative data base.
The frequency spectrum was calculated for each derivation and then the broadband spectral measures; the Absolute Sentinel Power (PA), which represents the energy contained in the entire EEG (total PA) or the beta frequency contained in the
The generators of slow activity in brain frequency31 Hz were estimated using the Localizing Sources program (Neuronic, SA Cuba) and the Bayesian model averaged which primary density can be found12,
Sympathetic skin response was evaluated using two experimental designs, the first consisting of 16 neutral images obtained from standardized images of the International System of Attention and Affective Images (IANIM; neutral study for the sex).
This type of evaluation is part of a new method for the experimental study of emotions, it also has the advantage of using stimuli that can be easily presented in laboratory contexts, both in analog and digitized format, allowing time and exposure.
The IAPS consists of a standardized set of color images with the ability to evoke emotions and whose contents use a wide range of categories: sport, fashion, landscapes, natural disasters, tremendous selection of tasks, erotism.
Each IAPS image has a value that has been normalized in bipolar affective valence dimensions (with a range ranging from pleasant to unpleasant) and arousal or activation (whose range oscillates between).
The experiments were designed in the Mindtracer program (Neuronic SA, Cuba).
Each stimulus had a duration of 2000 milliseconds and the interstimulus interval was 200,000 milliseconds.
The recording was performed with BioDerm Model 2701 equipment and two electrodes placed in the middlephalange of the index and middle fingers of the dominant hand.
