This is a 55-year-old female patient with a history of hypothyroidism and adequate job performance.
While he was doing his work he was surprisingly attacked by an individual who caused a trauma in the left frontal region with a blunt object.
The patient describes that she had the feeling of having received a shot in her head, after which she lost consciousness for a short time and was treated in the hospital nearest to her work area where she received medical treatment and was sutured.
CT scan showed no cranioencephalic alterations.
She was referred to our institution 25 days after the event in order to perform a forensic evaluation of the body damage suffered.
The attending physician requested an evaluation by the Clinical Neurophysiology Laboratory where a clinical interview was conducted to the patient and the questionnaire of traumatic experiences was applied.
This is a simple instrument used for screening patients with post-traumatic stress disorder. It consists of three differentiated parts: a) Listed of Mood-Traumatic Experiences (18 items that investigate the existence or not of MDD long term symptoms; DSM-
The response is dichotomic (YES-NO) and the temporal framework any time after traumatic seizure.
This section investigates, using two additional items, whether they have received health care previously for this reason (the latter two are not scored).
The only items scored are the initial 18 in the list of symptoms, 1 point each affirmative answer and 0 each negative.
The total score is the sum of the 18 items.
An EEG was recorded in basal conditions during wakefulness using Medicid V equipment and Track Walker (Neuronic, SA CUBA) software.
Three minutes were recorded with eyes closed, two minutes with eyes open, three minutes during hyperventilation and two minutes of recovery and evaluated the sympathetic Attention Center of the skin, using an experimental design conforming to the model of the International Study.
The IAPS consists of a standardized set of color images with the ability to evoke emotions and whose contents use a wide range of categories; furthermore, it greatly facilitates the selection and control of stimuli tasks.
Each IAPS image has a value that has been normalized in bipolar affective valence dimensions (with a range ranging from pleasant to unpleasant) and arousal or activation (whose range oscillates between).
Six of them were selected with unpleasant valence that showed situations that represented danger for the life of a person and 16 neutral and the experiment was designed in Mindtracer program (Neuronic SA, Cuba).
Each stimulus had a duration of 2000 milliseconds and the interstimulus interval was 200,000 milliseconds.
The recording was performed with BioDerm Model 2701 equipment and two electrodes placed in the middlephalange of the index and middle fingers of the dominant hand.
