A 70-year-old woman seen in our consultation since 1987.
He was previously studied by the Rheumatology Department of the Hospital de Alicante and was diagnosed as unrelated polyarthritis that years later was labelled as seronegative rheumatoid arthritis.
In 1987 she consulted for an episode of parotid swelling that was diagnosed as lithiasis of the parotid gland.
It resolved spontaneously but remained with a residual clinic of xerostomia, hyposialia and dysgeusia.
During these years he has suffered an episode of Muguet that has been treated with antifungal treatment.
Since then, the patient has followed a long pilgrimage by a number of specialists, including the rheumatologist and the rehabilitator, due to recurrent sprouts of polyarthralgias and simple glaucoma ophthalmologist who will present digestive symptoms.
In 1998, an abnormal liver biochemistry (GOT 46, GPT 42, GGT 84, ferritin 230 and VSG 34) was detected in a control laboratory for reuma.
She was referred for study to the Digestive Service.
Analytical tests showed similar cytostasis and disappeared (GGT 78, FA 329, AST and ALT normal).
ANA were negative and anti DNA positive, with negative serology for virus.
In 1999, the patient underwent abdominal ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) and gastroscopy with results of cholesterolosis with hepatomegaly and chronic gastritis.
Although this is not a case report, in 1999 she presented symptoms of ischemic heart disease such as exertional angina, received treatment and was referred to Cardiology.
Later, in May 2000, he suffered an acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with a vessel disease.
In January 2001, as a result of CASE 1, which had certain similarities such as alterations in hepatic biochemistry with mucosal dryness, we requested laboratory tests for the diagnosis of SS.
We obtained positive results for anti-Ro, anti-La, anti DNA and ANA.
Then we performed the Schrimer test whose result was pathological (0 mm in 5 minutes) with which the diagnosis of SS was confirmed.
