A 37-year-old male, 176 cm in height and 118kg of weight, among his previous surgical history, was operated two years ago of arthrodesis L4-L5, due to persistence of iliac crest bone graft retained for one year.
Despite maintaining treatment with tramadol and pregabalin, the pain intensity measured on the VAS scale was 8.
He had left lumbosciatalgia with nocturnal predominance, sleep disturbances, dysesthesia in the scar area, and hypoesthesia in the femoral-cutaneous nerve region.
The patient also presented magnetic resonance imaging, which showed post-surgical changes in the posterior region, lateral dissection of the disapmorcal nerve in L5-S1 and degenerative changes in the left evoked neurophysis of the lumbar nerve.
We propose an initial cycle of 10 acupuncture sessions combined with indirect moxibustration with Artemisa, with a cadence of 2 a week, with assessment at the end of treatment.
In each session in the first place, the dysesthetic scar was treated with six round-head Chinese acupuncture needles (0.2mm×25mm) on both sides of the scarb, performing the insertion in a way or not.
The next stepped up Artem: treatment of postsurgical neuralgia locating Chinese type acupuncture needles round head 0.20mm×25mm for another 20min combined with moxibustation with pure
4GV.
(Ming Menn) is located in the posterior midline in the depression of the spinal apophysis of L2.
Needle puncture upwards at mid-distance distance.
23V.
(Zen Iu) It is located at the level of lower depression of the spinal apophysis of L2, at 1.5 distances from the dorsal midline.
Puncture perpendicular to half depth distance.
52V.
(Tché Zé) is located 1.5 distances from the anterior.
It clicks toward the center at a mid-distance depth.
36V. (Tch′eng Fou) At the center of the glue fold.
Puncture perpendicular to a depth distance.
40V.
(Oe. Tchong) In the center of the popliteal hollow.
Puncture perpendicular to a depth distance.
60V.
(Kuen Loun) Between the maximum protuberance of the external maleolus and the Achilles tendon.
Puncture perpendicular to half depth distance.
11V.
(Ta Tchou) At the level of lower depression of the spinal apophysis of D1, 1.5 distances from the dorsal line.
It clicks towards the midline at mid-distance distance.
34BV.
(Yang Ling Tsiuan).
In anterior and distal depression of the fibular head.
Puncture perpendicular to a depth distance.
39BV.
(Siveng Tchong).
Three distances above the maximum elevation of the fibular malleolus at the anterior border of the fibula.
Puncture perpendicular to a depth distance.
1.
At the end of treatment the patient was asymptomatic with VAS of 0, in a review after 6 months of follow-up persisted with VAE 0.
