In November 2001, the corpses of a woman were found, in an advanced stage of the Communty located in the south of Madrid 4367, located in a rustic farm located in an east side of Madrid.
1.
Inside the farm was the part built for housing and its extension enabled with garage roof.
The area destined for housing was about six meters long by three meters wide and had a metal door.
The door was broken, there was a room without a window, and a tube ready for the exit of boiler gases which was intentionally filled.
On the right side of this room there was another dependency of similar dimensions with a window with a small fractured glass.
When opening the metallic access door to the house, in the main room, two corpses were found on the ground, with prone decubitus position in active fixation phase.
One of the corpses corresponded to a man who presented the part exposed to the air, that is, the back, mummified.
In the left hand, all connective tissue and epidermis of distal phalanges were missing, except for thumb.
The other corpse was that of a woman who lacked muscle parts.
A large number of insects were observed in different stages of development, both in cadavers and around them, which probably contributed to the destruction of muscle mass and soft parts of them.
1.
Although the site was closed, preventing the colonization of arthropods of forensic interest, these might have been due to trophic resources through any small open orifice, such as the fractured crystal in the room of a private room.
It should be noted that one of the corpses, the closest to the door, had a metallic doublet with a 25-digit appearance, in which the closest interior was found to be wooden vegetation or brachy.
In this sense, acquaintances of the deceased, who had been living with them for a period of time, declared that when they were making fire, they pressed the rodents in a candle to heat up their decay.
On one occasion, the couple got dizzy because of carbon monoxide inhalation.
1.
Material and method
ESTABLISHMENT OF EVIDENCE
The following insect samples were collected according to the adopted situ labeling method, according to the General Indication by Polyger Ocular Technical Policial, performed by experts of the Scientific Police Group of this town.
They were taken from the area where the head of the male and the female were respectively, and from the heads of the two corpses, diptera puparies, of different size and morphology, some of them open.
Among the viscous remains located below and around the deceased, larvae, puparies and very fragmented adults of the diptera, larvae, liters, exuvial and adult reservoirs were collected.
From the roof, near the edge formed by the walls of the house, arthropods corresponding to arachnids were taken.
Dead and open pupariatric imagos were immediately poured into glass with 70% etched alcohol.
Representative samples of immature stages corresponding to larvae were taken using entomological tweezers and pinceles.
When a large sample was available, part of the larvae remained alive.
The specimens were introduced in plastic boxes with a substrate of cellulose paper to be created in the laboratory until the adult emergence.
The same operation was carried out with closed puparies.
The other part of the sample corresponding to larvae was staggered for 2 minutes and immediately transferred to a bottle with 70% alcohol.
This operation is very important to avoid retraction of larval tissue and darkening of the specimens.
Then, on the same day, signs and symptoms were sealed and recorded, together with the "Switzerland Record of Samples" copy of the "Acta de Anología del Intomación de la Icular Técnico Policial"PM - Acta of the Anología and the Antropagem.
All these requirements are mandatory to ensure the chain of custody of samples.
It is important to highlight that the identity of the deceased was carried out by means of dactilar tissue regeneration of the decayed teeth in autopsy; therefore, it was not necessary to carry out a logical study or an autopsy.
TREATMENT OF SAMPLES IN LABORATORY
In the laboratory, samples corresponding to live pupariahs and larvae of diptera were reared under standardized conditions, in a culture chamber Heraeus, model B-12, until the adult was obtained.
In addition, larvae of diptera that received dead were mounted in microscopic preparations and morphological study of the structures present in the anal segment and anterior part of them was performed.
Subsequently, insects were identified, labeled and labeled.
All of them were adequately preserved according to a standardized protocol [11].
It is important to point out that the specific identification of the imagos (Di: Muscidae) was carried out by Dr. Ad Potarnt(1), and that of those affected by Dr. Antonio Melic(2).
1.
Results
The study conducted at the Laboratory of Forensic Entomology provided the following data on insect succession:
• Larvae, pupariahs, vacuums and some closed-loops (District: Muscidae).
It should be noted that this sample contained the highest number of specimens.
1.
• Very fragmented, male and female adults (two females) of the species Hydrotaea capensis (Wiedemann, 1818) (Di impaired: Muscidae), previously called Ophyra capensis
1.
• Puparios, open and empty of content (District: Fanniidae).
• Two closed files of the Calliphoridae family.
• Open and empty spaces of content (District Phoridae).
• Two tapered spiders of the species Steatozoa (Walckenaer, 1802).
• Cleridae family.
• Complete litres and imagos of the species Necrobia rufipes (De Geer, 1775) (Coleo: Cleridae).
• Exuvias corresponding to maggots prepared with imstidosis, in addition to the specimes frischi (Dermeus) Kugelanidae (Coleanidae).
• An imago of the archipelago (Cardiops) species pumilio Erichson, 1834 (Coleo named hysteridae).
1.
Correspondence address: A. M. García-Rojo.
E-mail: ana.garcia@dgp.mir.es.
Telephone: 91 582 83 66; Fax: 91 300 35 21
Date of receipt: 4.FEB.09 Date of acceptance: 28.MAY.09
