We describe the case of a 31-year-old girl who was found dead at her exnoviation home.
The cadaver is found naked on the bed of its bedroom in prone position, with the left arm on the head, and the right arm extended next to the body.
After being informed the services of 061, they performed unsuccessful cardiopulmonary resuscitation maneuvers for 20 minutes.
In the lifting of the corpse, the victim is placed on the ground next to the bed, in a supine position, with a fully vencible stage of establishment dorsal, intense neck stiffness and not fixed region.
The cadaveric cooling has not yet appeared, appreciating the touch that the corpse remains warm.
The external examination revealed tenuous punctiform and slight tapered ecchymosis on the face.
In the anterior face of the right shoulder an ecchymotic erosion transversal to the axis of the body of 2 cm and in the left side of the neck, in an area of 2 cm, several punctiform ecchymotic lesions.
RESULTS OF AUTOPSIA:
In the external coloration: highlights the cyanotic face, anterior region of the neck and both ears (cervical-facial ecchymotic mask).
Numerous punctiform ecchymosis in the face fundamentally in both eyelids and mucosae upper and lower of both eyes.
In the submental region a longitudinal erosion of 0.5 centimeters.
In the upper lip along the inner edge, there is a squeezing and redness of the mucosa.
In the lower lip there is also this redness of the mucosa and there is also a sharp excoriation near the lip commissure, in which the imprint of two pieces is marked.
1.
In the neck as the only lesion, a 2 cm area with ecchymotic infiltrates in the left lateral posterior region was observed.
1.
The external genitalia showed no lesions.
In internal fixation, the following findings stand out:
In the cranial cavity, there is punctiform ecchymosis in both scalp flaps.
In the cervical region, there was a small hemorrhagic infiltrate in aponeurosis of the internal face of the right masseteridmastoid muscle.
Three punctiform infiltrates of 0.5 centimeters in right hyoid muscle.
Location of laryngeal skeleton
In the thoracic cavity, only subpleural punctiform ecchymosis were observed in both lung parenchyma and slight congestion.
Subepidural punctiform ecchymosis in the superior and inferior faces of the heart and in the aortic artery outflow.
RESULTS OF COMPLEMENTARY STUDIES:
In samples taken from the vaginal cavity, a criminalistic study was conducted to find other semen whose genetic profile corresponded to the imputed.
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
The imputed person is a 26-year-old man, left-handed and blind.
At the age of 12 years after an autolytic attempt in which he fired with a firearm in the right sien, he caused a severe traumatic brain injury with burst of both globe blindness.
The physical examination showed:
- 0.5 cm rounded ecchymosis on the left arm.
1.
- Several punctiform ecchymosis in the left arm.
- 2.5 cm area with several punctiform ecchymosis on the inner side of the left elbow flexure.
- Two punctiform erosions on the back of the left hand.
