This is a young male, driver and single passenger in a tourism industry, who suffers a shoe when circulating about 100 m, according to the Civil Traffic Discharge Certificate Unit estimate.
The vehicle collides with an acequia and the housing is deformed, so it is necessary to excarcerate the cabins.
According to the same sources, the accident happened about 1.45 a.m. in the morning, without witnesses.
He was admitted to the ICU of the Regional Hospital in coma state from another hospital for evaluation by the Neurosurgery Department, apparently after suffering a severe TBI in a traffic accident.
In the imaging studies performed, the existence of a hematoma with bone schirls at the right temporal level and image of metallic density, compatible with the presence of a contralateral bullet level, is observed.
Selected, the inspection shows, after shaving the hair, an inlet aspect of the bullet in the right parietal region, with no exit orifice.
1.
The immediate evolution is towards death clinic, which is confirmed with the corresponding electroencephalographic record.
After judicial authorization, organs for transplantation were extracted and forensic autopsy was performed.
1.
Autopsy findings
Exterrane:
It is about the corpse of a male, caucasoid race, 25 years old and leptomatic constitution.
The signs of recent body violence were: a rounded hole of 1 cm in diameter with a concentric perilesional area of left lateral excoriation located on the left side of the left side epicchial constriction, with sharp edge of the left side, 2 cm dorsal aspect of the right concentric conduct.
There is also a small incisive wound in the right frontal region, ecchymosis in the right costal margin, as well as hematomas in both arms, right knee and anterior face the signs for surgical manipulation of the extraction.
Internal consistency:
In the autopsy external dimension to the left external angle, to place the biveal, in the anterior cutaneous flap lesions are observed in the subjacent level of the minor, one in the area corresponding to the supraorbital rim.
In the right temporal region, in agreement with the cutaneous orifice, there is a bone orifice of 10 mm in diameter in its external face and somewhat greater in the internal one ( funnel sign).
In the posterior cutaneous flap, there is a significant hematoma in the left temporoparietal region, with detachment of an irregular bony fragment measuring 1.5 x 1.5 cm from the left ear canal, with a diameter equal to 12 cm.
In this place, when the cranial vault is removed, a firearm projectile appears, deformed at the tip, located between the dura mater and the bone, with a diffuse diameter of about 6.5 mm.
Once the mass was extracted, the existence of a comminuted fracture of both ocular orbits was confirmed.
1.
Brain dissection shows parenchymal laceration in the form of a pathway that joins the described orifices, with perioral hemorrhagic fever.
The autopsy study of the remaining anatomical regions and viscera that were not removed for transplantation did not reveal any macroscopic lesions of interest.
1.
Studies
The skin flap of scalp from the right temporal region was sent to the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences of Sevilla. This flap included the small amount of lead in the right temporal region and showed consistent concentrations of lead.
Afterward, a seal was sent in silence to the Analysis Department of the Research and Criminalistic Centre of the Civil War, as well as a sealant containing the deceased sealant, applied in both cases and
The results revealed the presence of particles similar to that of a fulminant applied to the hand, which was also characteristic of the right helmet.
Forensic Medical Outcomes:
A.- NATURE OF ELEMENTS.
Lesions of two different natures have been found:
1.
Located nature.
Consists of hematomas, erosions and blunt wounds, which due to their characteristics and location, are compatible with those produced in traffic accidents.
None of them is clinically important, considering that they were not determinants in the cause or mechanism of death.
2.- Left by firearm projectile.
The morphology of the orifices found in the skull and the finding of a projectile indicate that we are faced with a firing of a single projectile firearm.
The wound corresponding to the entrance wound is located in the right temporal region.
The project follows a right-to-left, slightly bent-to-ribe and forward-to-rooted path, completely locating the interior mass without exiting the exterior.
The roof fractures of both orbits could correspond to the so-called secondary fractures caused by the kinetic energy from the projectile [9].
B.- LEGAL MEDICINESS
Subsequent police investigations indicated that the deceased, without any medical history of interest, had no known economic problems, being significant the fact that shortly before the events he had hired a life assurance and had acquired an illegal pistol.
The thorough examination of the vehicle, once deposited in the diving, allowed the collection of several 6,35 mm diameter pistol cartridges, one of them percutaneous.
Based on these backgrounds and taking into account the location of the entrance orifice (right temporal region), the distance from the shot (at least at short distance, as believed by the criminalistic study), the existence of a dead vehicle in other circumstances i
