He was a subject of a 71-year-old Magreb country who traveled from his country to another north of Europe by plane and died during the flight.
When they find him in his seat without breathing, the crew apply basic resuscitation for 30 minutes.
The pilot enters the airport of Malaga, because it is the closest to death, to leave the corpse.
Subsequently, the airport physicians applied advanced cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
He was accompanied by a woman who only spoke Arabic and who followed the journey.
The only information obtained was that it had been wrong for 4 days.
1.
Autopsy findings (sinopsis)
The most outstanding findings of the external examination were: male 1.67 m tall and 85.2 kg, BMI: 30.5, abdominal perimeter of 106 cm. As pathological signs had a slight subicteric conjunctival dye.
Placement of a semiautomated electrode position on the thorax and a 15 cm scar on the right subcostal laparotomy.
Internal examination revealed bilateral rib and sternal fractures (cardiopulmonary resuscitation).
Signs of purulent exudate in the pericardium, with 3 c.c., as well as pseudo pericarditis of fibrin in the pericardium.
Heart rate 475 g; coronary arteries with some atheromatous plaques that do not stenosis more than 30% of light at some points, usually with good light.
Myocardium unchanged.
The valve stenosis circumferences in centimeters measured: tricuspid 12, pulmonary 8, mitral 10.5 and aortic 8.
The wall thickness, in centimeters, of the right ventricle was 0.5, of the left ventricle was 1.5 and of the septum was 1.5.
Pulmons of 865 g the right and 835 g the left, massive hepatization, atheroma plaques in the endothelium of the pulmonary arteries.
1.
Cholecystectomized.
A liver of 2,220 g, congestive, highly sensitive; cutting multiple microabcesses.
A pigmented calculus of 1.8 × 1.1 × 0.9 cm was found in the common bile duct, enclaved at its distal end.
Pancreas 145 g, with signs of autolysis.
Kidneys of 150 g each, with granular surface and intense cortical stiffness.
1.
The following studies were performed:
- Microbiological analysis of the pericardial effusion, liver microabscesses, and spleen (laboratory of local hospital), the results of which are shown in Table 1.
1.
- Toxicological alcohol analysis and general screening, which was negative
- General histopathological study, which confirmed the macroscopic diagnosis.
