A 59-year-old male, smoker of 15 cigarettes a day and drinker of a glass of wine in his meals, with no relevant medical history or family history of tumour.
The patient was operated on with a left hemicolectomy for colon adenocarcinoma in 2009 and treated later with adjuvant chemotherapy with total remission of his disease evidenced in annual controls by CAT scan and laparoscopy none of them found tumor recurrence.
No space occupying lesions were identified in other abdominal organs in the last CT scan, nor were the presence of mesenteric or retroperitoneal lymphadenopathies in pathological range.
On the other hand, in submucosal lesion surgical anastomosis was identified at 15 centimeters from the margin without alterations and a polyp in the rectum at 10 centimeters from the anal margin, sessile, regular anal diameter, with 8 mm consistency.
Due to its morphological and structural characteristics, it was decided to resect by assisted mucosectomy with elastic band in the same endoscopic act.
The technique was successful, objectpolypectomy was performed successfully without complications during or after the procedure.
Histopathology revealed PAS-negative nodular submucosal lesion consisting of spindle cells and polygonal nuclei with ovoid nuclei without atypia or mitotic activity and with a large cytoplasm with positive granular content.
The tumor resection margins were reported as complete and the presence of S-100 protein immunoreactivity increased the specificity of the diagnosis.
Subsequently, the patient underwent upper endoscopy.
Polypoid lesions were not observed in gastroduodenoscopy.
Only one erosive mild bulbitis and an image of chronic antral gastritis were identified.
Antrum biopsies were taken which confirmed chronic gastritis and a urease test was performed which was positive for H. pylori.
At the level of the oral cavity, the patient did not present any gingival or tongue lesion and in the dermatological examination no alteration or nodularity was identified in the body surface.
