Human bone remains at the base of a bathtub were found during rehabilitation work at home.
Police investigation guided the possibility of these belonging to a young woman who had disappeared six years earlier.
Forensic Pathologies remainders were assigned to the Forensic Pathology Service of the Institute of Legal Medicine of Catalonia in order to identify them and determine the cause and circumstances of death.
Matrix support can be found in Table 1.
1.
All remains were human, disarticulated and without remains of soft parts.
From a macroscopic-morphometric point of view, they seemed to belong to the same individual, an extreme that was later confirmed by DNA study.
One of the segments corresponded to the posterior distal third, measured 48 x 13 x 18 mm, had a brownish compact appearance, with a thick smear layer and a thick cortical bone loss.
The left upper and lateral edges as well as the right side were more irregular and rough with the bevelled surface.
In one of the edges, a dentate section surface was insinuated in the external examination and it was confirmed during the exploration with stereoscopic magnifying glass, being difficult to evaluate the loss of the endosteal mass due to it.
In the cortical bone were found multiple incise lesions that followed an ascending oblique path from lateral to medial, and in some areas they changed sense.
In the external lateral area of the cortical bone, there was a defect on the bone surface in a position that recalled a brush, with superficial striations of 2 mm wide that eliminated bony reliefs.
1.
The rest of the bone fragments had a greyish appearance with parallel and transverse striations in the cortical bone and blackening of the blackened medullary area and showed no other alterations.
1.
The DNA study carried out in the less preserved bone tissue confirmed the identity of the young woman disappeared years earlier.
During the statements of the alleged medication, she mentioned that she had consumed drugs and died due to an adverse reaction to them.
He also explained that he was embarrassed to admit this fact, since both had a family relationship as a man and niece.
She also said she had spread the body outdoors and spread the remains with a hose but did not mention hiding part of the bone remains under her bathtub.
