We report the case of a 59-year-old woman from Nigeria with a history of miliary tuberculosis, and without any other disease, receiving treatment with disodium ethyl starch (600 mg/kg/150), isoniazid (150).
Although the patient did not report any symptoms, she was referred to outpatient clinics for review two months after the start of treatment.
Visual acuity (VA) was 6/10 in both eyes (OA), intraocular pressure was 18 mmHg and biomicking anterior segment and posterior pole microscopic examination were normal in BE.
Pupils were normoreactive in BE without afferent pupillary defect.
The colors test of I gazea was normal in OA.
Humphrey 30-2 computerized campimetry revealed a peripheral annular scotoma in BE.
The patient's medical history included an examination six months before starting anti-tuberculosis treatment, in which the VA was 7/10 in the OU, with examination of the anterior segment and normal eye fundus.
Brain and orbit magnetic nuclear resonance (NMR) was normal.
Once these findings were identified, it was decided to suspend treatment with etambu bag maintaining the rest of the drugs and revision in a month to perform a new campimetry.
One month after suspending treatment with etambucil, the VA decreased to 1.5 meters, with no perception of colors and diffuse campimetry defect with central and peripheral involvement.
Visual evoked potentials (VEP) were pathological in BE, with no responses.
The electroretinogram showed no abnormalities.
At this time, treatment with isoniazid was also suspended and pyrazinamide 500 mg/day was administered.
Four months after suspending ethambu bag and three months after suspending isoniazid, VA reached 1/10 and the visual field showed central improvement.
Ten months after discontinuing treatment, visual acuity and bamboo showed a visual appearance of 5/10 in BE. The patient recovered from the worst visual acuity, which was counting fingers at 1.5 meters, residual field recovery.
At this time, cultures for positive results were negative.
