In this paper we present the case of a 36-year-old male, with a 14-year history of non-alcoholic steatohepat with aerobic treatment during this period confirmed by biopsy, without indicating the degree of dietary exercise itself.
In the last two years, the subject usually attends an individualized exercise prescription program under our supervision, in addition to following his/her medical control.
Before joining the program, the subject presented the anthropometric and physiological characteristics summarized in Table I. The subject declared: a) to be physically active -performing two sessions a week, to follow a long-term diet with no lipids.
Their incorporation into the program was studied their cardiorespiratory fitness -by means of a submaximal ergometry (according to the protocol of YMCA) (8)- and their muscular strength (according to the protocol of B).
The subject was encouraged to continue maintaining their autonomous practice of exercise and was instructed to use a pulse oximeter during exercise, as well as to collect data from each digital session in a "training diary".
A training program was designed -complementary to self-reported exercise by the patient- consisting of two one-hour sessions a day, on two non-consecutive days, to be performed in gyms under supervision of an instructor.
An attempt was made with these complementary sessions to adjust the training load of the subject so that, in addition to that performed spontaneously by him, the recommendations of the American College of Sports Medicine (10) were met.
The physical condition of the patient was periodically evaluated, in order to adjust the training intensities to the functional improvements that were gradually being progressively reassessed.
In a post hoc analysis, four major periods were identified according to the average percentage of workload of the session dedicated to improving cardiorespiratory resistance and muscle strength.
During the intervention period no diet adjustments were made, but the subject continued to maintain the nutritional guidelines that were indicated in his periodic medical check-ups.
After two years of physiological training, this could objectify an increase in cardiorespiratory function and muscle strength, indicating that both the intensity, as well as the periodization and planning of complementary exercise sessions were the correct ones.
The analytical parameters recorded in the periodic reviews showed an important change in the trend in cholesterol and triglyceride levels - data not shown - in the intervention period.
Similarly, although the plasma transaminase levels remained high, they tended to be lower than the period before the subject entered the program, as well as to show less dispersion.
However, no reduction in body weight or percentage of fat mass was observed which, on the contrary, tended to increase.
From all this it can be concluded that with the physiological adaptations that are achieved with properly "dosed" exercise, the natural course of the disease can be altered.
On the contrary, the autonomous implementation of these exercises would not achieve adaptations, so it would be ineffective in the treatment of the disease.
