A case of forensic autopsy of a 46-year-old woman, 1.57 meters tall and thin normosomic biotype is presented.
It is found in the backyard of his country house in a supine position, with clothes removed and soaked in blood on its slope.
The yard is packed, unroofed, and with a slope towards its outside door leading to a field.
Elevated buttons are crossed.
The clothes on the top of the body are removed.
Previous health care is available, but not exact information on the maneuvers performed during this procedure.
There are few traces of blood under the victim and around him.
The night before the discovery of the victim had been moist, and the clothes and the surface of the yard were moist.
Together with the victim's right flank, there is a short black hair mattress analogous to the victim's hair.
At the entrance to the patio laundry, there are vomitingd blood remnants with some remnants of hair resembling those found next to the victim.
1.
Examination of the house and the rest of the cafeteria does not indicate signs of violence.
At the entrance of the hatch, with its door open, there is the victim's trough, with the engine in a staging position, the lights placed and the door opened.
A few meters from the victim there is a lintern with the batteries exhausted and in a "on" position.
The corpse has at least six of the seven characteristic injury patterns described in the forensic medical literature in deaths from dog attacks1-4.8-13.
The lesions were located in:
Skull region:
- Absence of near-complete scalp with complete exposure of galeal plane.
Pér partial de aponeurosis gale.
Short-contusion bands.
1.
- Complete amputation of the left and partial right ear.
Wounds with irregular bleeding edges
- Multiple injuries to the eye in both hemispheres and lips.
Upper right limb:
- Multiple puncture-contusion punctiform wounds.
1.
- Widespread wounds in the greater axle perpendicular to the axis of the upper limb, with overlapping features and blunt edges.
1.
- Complete irregular tearing of muscle masses.
Destruction of aponeurosis
Deinsertion of the dermal and subdermal plane with fibrous tissue bridges that partially maintain subdermal continuity.
1.
Cervical region:
- Linear erosions (compatible with claw injury), as well as contusion-like lesions in the eye.
1.
Bronchus, lower extremities or upper left limb: no lesions.
The findings of the complete autopsy performed on the deceased only evidenced the presence of the lesions already described, of vital and/or perimortal characteristics and findings compatible with significant natural hemorrhage and traumatic shock associated with other causes, without findings indicative of death.
The toxicological study was negative.
Two mongrel dogs are found on the farm; they are non-castrated male (1 year and 5 months of age) and heterosexual.
The dogs were not tied, and it seems the male had bitten the woman before.
They had not undergone canine education or training.
After performing the autopsy, the judicial authority recommends the sacrifice of animals.
Dogs' dental casts, blood for DNA study, and stool samples are taken.
In the male dog, feces show traces of black hair of slightly curved morphology and length compatible with the hair of the deceased.
The judicial authority shall not order veterinary autopsy of the animals.
The forensic genetic studies requested and hair analysis in canine feces are not completed in the reference laboratory.
