It is about the corpse of an elderly man, found on the ground of one of the premises of the backyard of his house.
The body was in a supine position with the head lying on a bag.
On the right temple he had a bleeding hole compatible with the one produced by firearm from which a bloody reguero covered the right side of his face and neck.
In the shirt carrying it, blood spots could be observed by impregnation and splashing in the anterosuperior portion of it.
On the right hand, spots of blood splinter appeared on the back.
The place of the survey was ordered, with no signs of a quarrel, and no signs of tearing were found on the deceased's clothes that could indicate signs of struggle.
In a wooden counter located at the feet of the corpse, an old French revolver and handwritten notes were found, directed to Juez and Forensic, respectively.
1.
After proceeding to the lifting of the corpse, he was sent to the Anatomical Forensic Institute of Cartagena where he proceeded to perform the autopsy in which he could appreciate:
In the external exam:
On the inner side of the left wrist, a vital incisive wound was observed, which did not affect deep planes.
On the right hand, salpicillium-like blood spots appeared, these being more abundant on the back.
In the right temporal region, it presented a rounded orifice with tapering shape and surrounded by tattoo, corresponding by its characteristics to the entrance orifice of firearm [1,3,5].
A rounded hole with contusion tape and tattoo appeared on the neck, with similar characteristics to the wound described above, so it would be an entrance wound by gunshot.
1.
No signs of traumatic violence were observed in the rest of the body surface, and no exit orifices appeared.
On internal examination:
Once the skull infiltrated and dissected the temporal muscles, a large contussive hematoma was found in the area adjacent to the entrance orifice of the right temporal region, with hemorrhagic in the right temporal muscle without affecting intact layers of bone.
From this level and with caudal cranial direction it was observed a dislaceration of the deep planes of the muscles of the right facial mass with hemorrhagic infiltrate, finding in the deepest alveolar ridge narrowing right.
The meninges appeared congestive.
The encephalon had a soft consistency with edematous aspect.
The cerebral constrictions were wide and flat, with narrow grooves and pills.
In the posterior part of the neck, appeared lying to the left opening located in the neck, a hemorrhagic infiltrate with tearing of cervical muscle planes following a straight path from back to front, from right to left vertebral fracture.
At this level (left lateral neck area) a second projectile was found.
1.
From the data collected in the survey and the findings of the autopsy the following considerations and medico-forensic conclusions were made:
The superficial incisal wound presented on the inner side of the left forearm, due to its vitality and location characteristics, could correspond to a suicide attempt immediately prior to death.
The subject performed a first shot on the right temporal region, but due to the characteristics of the cartridge (very old and with poorly preserved gunpowder), by impacting the projectile on the right alveolar ridge prostituted deep
1.
By not producing his death this first shot, he shot a second shot on the neck, which had fatal effects by injuring the vascular-nerve bundle of the neck producing a large left-sided pro-cervical hemorrhage.
Probably having impacted this second projectile on the skull would have happened the same as with the first shot.
As forensic medical conclusions it was established that the etiology of the suicide death was due to shot by firearm that produced a great hemorrhage when injuring the neurovascular bundle of the neck.
