A 30-year-old male patient with Dx Hemangioma in the facial mass.
1.
AHF: Sister with a diagnosis of heart disease.
Other questioned and denied.
APNP: Tabaquism and alcoholism denied.
PPA: Surgical, 3 surgeries for facial and neck injuries last in December 1990 and external carotid embolization in February 1996.
She denied allergies, chronic degenerative and luetic.
Transfunctional positive.
BP: At birth, the patient presented with a pigmented left lower lip.
At the first year of age, there was an increase in volume in the anterior region of the neck with growth to the region of the left ear and mastoid region.
At 5 years of age hemangioma resection was performed with progressive increase of the lesion in extension and volume.
On December 18, 1989 a resection of cervical hemolymphangioma was performed from the anterior part of the neck to the inferior border of the lower jaw required to perform a radical neck dissection and, due to this, to hemorraphangioma.
There is recurrence, so on December 11, 1990 a third resection is performed in which the histological report diagnosed "Cavernous hemangioma with Thrombosis".
On February 7, 1996 embolization was performed in the territory of the left external carotid in which he was admitted to the intensive care unit after the bronchoaspiration procedure.
In 1994 and 1996, there was a growth of hemangioma with occasional growth of approximately 3 months in the posterior region of the hemangioma.
It is currently stable with increased volume in the anterior region of the neck and retroauricular region, supraclavicular region and left parotid region.
There were no respiratory compromise data only with the presence of dysarthria.
Recurrent giant hemangioma of unresectable left lateral face due to bleeding and postsurgical complications was diagnosed.
MRI showed mediastinal, neck, oropharynx, larynx and hypopharynx involvement.
The image of the coronal section T1 sequence shows the hemangioma occupying the left hemi-neck and hemi-neck at the level of soft tissues.
1.
The coronal T2 sequence shows the vascularity of the hemangioma occupying the left hemi-neck.
1.
T1 sagittal section with contrast involucro of the facial and cervical region.
1.
The patient received unresponsive interferon and is currently under observation, with progressive disease progression.
