A 48-year-old woman with a history of endometriosis, uterine myoma treated with embolization and myomectomy, and without toxic habits of smoking or alcoholism.
No children; parents and siblings with no history of interest.
She came to the consultation for several months with increased abdominal perimeter, epigastric discomfort associated with heartburn, postprandial heaviness and continuous diffuse abdominal pain, more intense in right hypochondrium.
Physical examination revealed a distended abdomen and an indurated painful abdominal mass in the right hypochondrium, epigastrium and mesogastrium.
No semiology of ascites exists.
The laboratory test showed an elevation of GGT, rest of the study (systematic urinalysis, general biochemistry, proteinogram, coagulation study, markers of hepatotropic and tumor viruses), with no significant findings.
Computed tomography showed a hepatomegaly with palpable abdominal cystic lesions, highlighting the right hepatic lobe (RHL) an 18 cm cyst, bile duct, pancreas and spleen without alterations.
Right pelvic kidney due to liver displacement.
Bilateral renal cysts of small size.
Uterine calcifying fibroids
Abdominal ultrasound confirmed the diagnosis of polycystic liver disease, with a giant cyst in HDL.
The absence of significant renal cysts and criteria for polycystic kidney disease allows the diagnosis of HPAE to be established.
Subsequently, the patient was admitted to the Digestive Service in a programmed manner, and percutaneous drainage was performed with 8F pigtail catheter, with ultrasound control of the giant liquid hepatic cyst, evading immediate complications.
In a second step, during the same day, a transcatheter cystography is performed in the Radiology Department, in which there is no alcohol and pure alcohol aspirates for 270 minutes of contrast leakage.
Later the patient was discharged with clinical and analytical improvement without immediate complications.
The patient remains under follow-up in asymptomatic consultations without requiring more sclerotherapy sessions.
Four years after the procedure, an abdominal CAT scan showed a decrease in the size of the treated hepatic cyst (8.4 cm).
