M.A., 40 years old, is a working woman in the diagnostic radiology service of the hospital.
Her family history included a deceased mother with breast cancer at 56 years of age and a father diagnosed with essential hypertension.
Personal history without interest.
Occupational history: a hospital radiodiagnostic technician.
Classified by the radiation protection service as a professional worker exposed to ionising radiation category A (may receive an effective dose greater than 6 millimetres (mSv) per official year) since 2006.
He previously worked in another health center as a clinical assistant.
1.
Diagonostic
She was diagnosed with ductal carcinoma of the right breast in a tertiary care hospital.
Free skin.
The pathology report showed: free resection margins, free lymphadenopathy; negative estrogen receptors; negative progesterone receptors; pT1N0 stage (sn)Mx.
1.
Treatment
Tumorectomy (free resection approaches) and sentinel node biopsy
Adjuvant chemotherapy with Taxotere.
Radiotherapy on mammary gland totaling a dose of 50 Grays (Gy) with two tangential fields, at a rate of 2 Gy per fraction.
High rate brachytherapy with Iridio-192 needles, totaling 8 Gy.
1.
Ev
Follow up in outpatient clinics and radiotherapy departments of a hospital in Sanitat.
At 18 months of age, the patient suffered from exhaustion.
He came to the occupational medicine service of the prevention service for medical recognition after absence due to long illness.
Reports on radiation therapy and radiation therapy are presented.
Located as a verbal unconsensus by the oncologist, seeking exposure to ionizing radiation.
1.
Discussion
The worker is a radiodiagnostic technician and is qualified by the radiation protection service as professionally exposed to ionising radiation category A. In this case, in addition to the medical certificate of normal qualification for the company APMIN, NATERTO should not be issued
1.
The worker received in her treatment a dose of 50 Gy of conventional radiotherapy (teaching with linear accelerator) plus 8 Gy of brachytherapy with Iridiov (remember that in case of photons and electrons).
The legal limit of professional exposure is: effective dose = 50 mSv per official year and 100 mSv in five consecutive years (in 1 cm2 skin 500 mSv / official year).
1.
Conclusions
The worker is qualified as apt for the job of Specialist Technician in Radiodiagnosis, with the following limitations:
* Not eligible for specially authorized exposure as defined in Article 12 of the Regulation on health protection against ionising radiation.
* Not eligible for participation in the radiological emergency plans defined in Article 59 of the Regulation on health protection against ionising radiation.
1.
Correspondence address: Hospital NISA 9 de Octubre Avenida Valle de la Ballestera - 59 46015 - Valencia e-mail: psoto@hospitales.nisa.es
Date of receipt: December 15, 2014 Date of acceptance: March 9, 2015
