This is a 38-year-old woman, seven months pregnant, who disappeared from her place of residence (a rural population of Panama Oeste) in September.
Four days later she was found dead in an open place about 50 minutes from where she disappeared.
In the lifting of the cadaver, the body was observed in an open field with abundant vegetation (herbazal) in prone position with the head covered entirely by a plastic bag.
In the oral cavity was observed a foreign body (toallite) introduced completely into the glotis.
The body was in the emphysematous phase of the putative colitis with abundant larvae in natural orifices and the date of death was established between 4-5 days indicating that death had occurred shortly after its disappearance.
1.
The woman was partially dressed, so that her pants and underwear were fixed.
After denudarting the cadaver, a coloration was observed near the entire body surface, areas of skin perforated and abdominal disk with drawing of the superficial venous network ('marmorization').
1.
The autopsy showed no signs of obstetric manipulation at genital level.
The immature neonate was in the mother's underwear united to the umbilical cord of 50 cm in length and showed no signs of being born alive.
The placenta had not been exploded, lying within the uterine cavity.
1.
This was a complete product, of which sex could not be determined due to advanced placement, with a head size of 35 cm, allowing the establishment of a 7-month pregnancy.
1.
The medico-legal investigation concluded that the cause of death was unknown in a pregnant woman aged seven months, with the mechanism being respiratory distress due to occlusion of orifices and airways.
The victim was abandoned in the field, started the phenomena of putative colitis and when found four days after death, she was in the emphysematous phase.
After the death, due to the effect of the gases of putative action, there was the ex-fetal manifestation of the foetus that was found out of the uterine cavity (ex-postmortem fetus).
