This is an 18-year-old male, born in Peru, who was admitted to our center in May 2012.
In the recognition of admitted patients, they had presented pathological antecedents of interest.
Among the toxic habits referred consumption of 150 grams of alcohol on weekends and occasional heroin smoked.
As for sexual practices, she reported being heterosexual and having had multiple partners, often in the context of alcohol intoxication without taking preventive measures.
Physical examination revealed numerous macular skin lesions predominantly in the thorax, which was oriented as pityriasis rosea.
Blood count, biochemistry and serology HIV, hepatitis and lumps were performed within the admission protocol. Treponema authenticity was detected in 1/8, Treponem positive analytic alterations in the rest, and treponema antibodies were detected.
Reinterruptedly, the primary patient did not present any manifestation of syphilis, although numerous alopecias were observed in the scalp, with no centimeter of inflammatory characteristics, less than fully visible plaques, with irregular diameter.
1.
This manifestation had been observed by the patient himself five days ago, having received a haircut, without having lost his hair before.
The dermatologic lesion described is related to alopecia apolillada, a rare sign of luetic secondarism.
It was treated with penicillin G benzathine 2,400,000 IU in a single dose.
Subsequently, clinical and serological follow-up was performed.
Alopecia is thought to resolve completely without sequelae by the third month after treatment1.
The incidence of syphilis infection in prison is higher than in the general population2.
Alopecia of the scalp is an uncommon manifestation in secondary syphilis. It is estimated that it occurs between 4 and 11% according to several published studies4,5. It can be both diffuse alopecias and apolice aspect.
Although syphilis is uncommon in the differential diagnosis of alopecia, it should be considered the luetic secondarism in an epidemiological context of risk.
