Benign Martin is a 24-year-old, single, living alone and working as a nurse in the Private Clinic El Bosque in Madrid.
The psychiatric data available are contained in a single interview conducted by Dr. Roncero (private psychiatrician) at the request of the patient.
His fathers became ill and since the age of five, approximately, he is under the care of his mother, who says "he was neither prevented nor mad, but was very lazy".
He studied A.T.S. and carried out courses of aesthetics, makeup and hairdressing by correspondence.
Her mother died two months ago, and she said that she was very handsome, and that she did not like her to be careless, for this reason she made up her maquillaba, her hair, etc.
He does not remember exactly the date of the divorce of his parents and reports that since then he has not seen his father again, "that he formed another family and possibly living in Sweden."
She has never had a partner or sexual relationship and considers that loneliness is the only problem.
The exploration, conscious, euthymic, does not transfer anxiety, normal thinking in course, fluid language.
Attention is drawn to the fact that after the recent loss of the mother shows no manifestations of grief.
His speech is superficial.
The impression is that there is a certain inability to insert a catheter.
1.
Information from other sources
Benign has lived confined in an old floor with a sick mother.
Everything she has done in her life has become attached to caring for this "perezosilla" woman, abandoned by her husband, possibly histrionic and narcissistic and incapable of giving.
Knowly modify the omitis and only teach it a castrant and prohibitive voice with which it prevents Benigno to enjoy alone, out of her window (" already half an hour).
Benign doesn't have friends, he probably has always gone out of a quick class, like the one who has a baby to his care and knows he's alone, blamed and handed over to a limiting mother who reorganizes her existence.
The only playful connection with the world is the dance academy facing its counter, a dance that symbolizes freedom and self harm.
Benign spends his free time looking through the window... "such as that woman in Marco's Guide, in front of the Malecón, hoping uselessly, seeing how time passes without passing anything."
One day, the mysterious phlegm, which always affects its victims, launches and Benigno falls in love with Alice.
With this fantasy Benigno can support the daily boredom: doing housework, working, caring for the mother, containing her, comforting her...
He can bear the imprisonment of his being.
He knows it, but it's his love, his only love.
With Alice's love comes the death of the mother and Benign does not make a duel, but how can you do a mourning of someone who was already dead? ~~~ When did Benucin die?
Like everything in love, Benigno seeks the opportunity to meet his love, and gets it.
Valent and determined to approach him, and he lets him enter into his world with the word; they share the orphanhood, and Alice speaks to him about his affections, which from that moment Benign makes his own.
We imagine Benigno's thoughts after this first meeting: that mental automatism that all in love overflows, that rebounds backwards, that interpretation pleases me, that joy is always joking.
How many projects, plans, doubts, which are rejected and accepted, which are improved! How many imaginary conversations with the loved one!
Love is "de-centering", going out of oneself and involves some madness and alignment.
Loneliness is isolated and unproductive....
Benigno opens a new world with love.
The day after this first meeting, she returns to the window and Alice is not there.
The days pass and Alice does not appear by the gym.
Awake, call her home; he knows that her father is a psychiatrist and decides to call for an appointment, he needs to see her... he needs to stop her madness.
a Companionship without a psychiatric interview, in a nurse's care, seeks Alice for the house, arriving in her room and taking a hair clamp, she needs something of her own and is, in this permission
Benign believes that with the possession of the other, fullness is achieved and loneliness is overcome (only the interiority of life is the other solitude and solitude), but ignores that the other has his own sentiment.
The next week she returns to Alice's house, uneasy, with hope fixed on her mind, and probably does not answer.
Alicia has suffered a traffic accident and has entered a coma, has been awarded the clinic El Bosque and Benigno has been elected as a nurse to take care of her due to her good reputation.
Benign's life now has a full sense: taking care of his love in the hope that some day, like the beautiful sleeping man, wake up and invests him as his prince.
Benign begins to do everything he hasn't done for Alice; see silent movies and representations of ballet..., finally, enjoy.
In the spectacle of Pina Bausch, "Müller Coffee", Benigno identifies himself with this black man, with a sad expression, who wears as mule on the streets of two women.
Benign wants to share learning and the emotions that his projects, coined with him, decide this new world he is learning and decides to "talk with her", at first as a monologue, perhaps the first years,
The house and the assemblage with the assent of the loved one are worthy of reform, and the sheets with the initial letters of both, perhaps because of their desire.
So far, the only consequences of Benigno's delirium are exquisite material and human care to Alice, but in one of the movies silent movies "The lover beloved guy" Benign identifies himself.
Benign projects his relationship with Alice in the relationship of Alfredo and Aro.
On the scene of the room at the Hotel "Youkali" Benigno finds that the loving bond gets his acme in the sexual act "Alfredo stays inside her forever",
The lover wishes to be "the other" possessing it.
Love is pure otreity.
The lover not only wants to be with the other but to merge with the other.
In normal subjects, sexual delivery is consensual, but in the movie of the lie lover Alfredo waits for her lover to be asleep to give herself to an oceanic experience of fusion.
Benign, perhaps interpreting in this expressivity that I keep alive the orgasm makes the woman happy (it is he who has always thought "that the brain of women is always a mystery, remember that we are happy to have details"),
A material rape that is not a formal rape because Benigno talks to her and is corresponded to her.
Benign wants to marry Alice because they feel better than most marriages.
He denies and denies that Alice is in a coma, vegetative state, who cannot say "yes I want" to any part of his body, denies that the monologue with Alice is "a madness".
Condensed by rape and diagnosed with a psychopath is imprisoned.
In prison he reads Marco's guidelines and identifies "with those people who have nothing and invent everything".
Benign the only thing that comforts him and gives him hope is to see his beloved one again (I cannot live in a world where Alice is not, a place where I cannot have hair with me or his pinch).
Later, when he becomes aware that leaving prison is impossible and that he is condemned to receive his love, he takes pills, leaving the following letter of prey and watch that his only friend is: "
When Alice had the accident, too, it rained.
I write to you before I escape.
I hope all I have taken is enough to enter a coma and meet her.
You're my only friend, I leave you the house I prepared for Alice and me.
Wherever they take me to see me and talk to me, be not as hermetic, tell me everything, even always, my friend."
1.
Clinical judgment
Benign is a love, a love of the dear; it is an essential erotomaan that remains throughout his delirium in the hope phase.
1.
Final comment
In this film Almodóvar shows us a broken delirium, sweet, feminine, without desire or grudge whose understanding can access any profane.
A delirium as sweet as the interpretation of Caetano Veloso of the "Cucurrucú Paloma".
Benign not to commit suicide, it is not like these erotomania that when they cannot get their love they enter melancholy.
Benign "if you escape" from reality again, the ingestion of pills is another act of servitude to delirium.
