An 8-year-old patient, with no remarkable general history, due to his stomatologist at the Oral Surgery and Implantology Masters, of the Faculty of Dentistry of Granada, in the asymptomatic mandibular odontological angle 2001, presented a tumor.
Clinical examination revealed bilateral bulging of the external cortical bone at the level of the mandibular angles, which caused facial deformities.
Fixation was painless.
Initially, an orthopantomography was requested, which showed two independent and well differentiated lesions, so that in the left mandibular angle a radiolucent rounded image with contralateral molar eruptions was seen as the first-sided molar angle.
Subsequently, a computed tomography (CT) with coronal sections and three-dimensional reconstruction was requested to see the real extent of the tear on the right side showing extensive tumor at the level of the mandibular angles and such an important cut of the cortical bone.
1.
The patient underwent surgery under general anesthesia.
On the right side a paracrestal approach of the inserted gingiva, an osteotomy of the vestibular wall of the mandible, resection of the fibrous tumor that was of fibrous and hard curettage of the entire bone were performed.
On the left side, a cystectomy was performed leaving the left lower first molar to erupt physiologically.
Histopathological study determined that in the right mandibular angle there was a neoformation of mesenchymal type consisting of mature bone trabeculae and more infrequently osteoid type with which it was diagnosed as JOF.
On the other hand, in the left mandibular angle, the presence of a cyst was evidenced due to cystic structure rectified epithelium polystratified plane with edema and exocytosis phenomena.
Due to the patient's age and the close association with a first permanent molar in eruption, it seemed to presuppose that it was an infected cyst of the radicular cyst, but it was diagnosed due to the presence of a cyst in a molar.
1.
To conclude, to indicate that the postoperative follow-up that has been carried out at six months, one year and two years, has shown the benefit of conservative surgical treatment carried out with the excision of the cyst in the left radicular space such a progressive decrease of the
On the other hand, there has been the physiological eruption of molars that could initially be affected by injuries.
Normal growth, chewing, aesthetics and neural function of the jaw have been preserved.
