We expose the effects of an exercise program in a patient (55 years, 58 kg, 158 cm and 22.83 kg/m2), retired due to physical disability, with GM grade III of 2 years of evolution, with dorsal kyphosis and cervical head tipping.
He had received treatment with plasmapheresis, Prograf® and Inmurel® and during the exercise program took Ciclosporina® (500 mg/15days and Calciumprazol® (301.5 mg/24 h).
Thymectomy had not been performed, although the patient was euthyroid with the presence of thyroid nodules and also suffered osteoporosis.
After being informed, she gave written consent to participate in the study.
The design and realization of this research respected the ethical recommendations of the World Medical Association and the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the Ethics Committee of Myasthenia Association of Spain (AMES).
Exercise programme and evaluations carried out
The exercise program began on June 20, 2012 and ended on July 17, 2012 and consisted of two weekly morning sessions.
The components of each session consisted of Pilates exercises floor, strength exercises for the muscle groups of biceps, triceps, pectoral wide, low-complexity condom (Difficult coping).
Limb proprioception exercises with a ball of 100% FOAM of 16 cm (Gui-an S.L. Sports Services®, San Sebastián de los Rey liquids, dorsiflexor quadriceps muscles)
During the exercise sessions, heart rate (HR) was monitored to prevent it from increasing more than 30 pulses per minute (ppm).
1.
At baseline and at the end of the study, weight (kg), height (cm) were measured by a scale with a stadiometer (model PS10®DINA, Derio, Spain), HR at rest, HERONIC® model 1, Holland
In each exercise session, environmental temperature and humidity were determined by means of a digital thermometer-barometer-diameter model AT701-H® (Armometer, Germany).
To assess the exercise performed, the time of exercise completed was measured.
The following tests were performed at the beginning and end of the program:
-Six-minute Walk Test, 6MWT)11, the distance walked was measured using a Dista model pedometer 100® (Newfeel 100®), Spain (measured authentic, Madrid, Spain).
The maximum force exerted by the patient at the moment and the strength resistance (that which applies the subject for 10" with each hand, keeping the arm stretched and pressing) were measured.
To prevent fatigue from altering the results, the patient was instructed one day and the next one was tested.
Both variables were measured in kg using a precision dynamometer 100 g (HS50008 Squeeze Sahan Corporation®, North Colone, England model).
-Flexibility of the trunk, upper and lower limbs14: the patient sat at the edge of a remnant of a height of 44 cm.
A foot flexed with the floor plan
The other stretched as much as possible, with the heel in contact with the ground and the foot in 90o flexion.
Spalda and heads.
The right hand was placed above the left, with the third fingers overlapping.
The patient was invited to reach the tip of the foot with the hands while exploring the air.
Each patient attempted to treat each condition.
Familiarization was allowed before the test.
The result is the maximum distance achieved (cm), maintained for 2", measured with an anthropometric tape (Class I model CM040 Gisibérica®, Cáceres, Spain).
-Flexibility of the upper extremities14: the participant was placed in a standing position, with one of the hands above the shoulder, with the elbow pointing upwards, the fingers extended with the back sliding as long as possible.
At the same time, the other hand was placed behind the back, with the back toward the dorsal area, trying to reach or surpass the other hand.
An attempt was made with each arm.
There was familiarization prior to the test.
The result is the minimum distance (cm) between third fingers of both hands, maintained for 2", measured using an anthropometric tape (Class I model CM040 Gisibérica®, Spain).
Lower limb strength: the number of squats performed in 30" with crossed hands on the chest was measured.
A 44 cm height and a chronometer (model AT701-H® Atech, Hirschau, Germany) were used.
To assess the perception of health status was applied the questionnaire of Perception of Health Status and Quality of Life SF-36 validated for Spanish by Alonso et al.15.
The results of the functional tests and the Health Status Perception Test, SF-36, obtained at the beginning and after the exercise program, are shown in Tables 2 and 3, respectively.
