Jaundice, Caucasian, first daughter of young parents (a 28-year-old mother and a 30-year-old father) healthy and non-consanguineous, with no known family history of renal disease.
Pregnancy was properly monitored and unchanged.
Eutocic delivery at 37 weeks without complications, with an Apgar score of 9/10.
Antrop à nascimento, weight of 2,760 grams, with a cephalic diameter of 48.5 cm and perimeter of 34.7 cm. VDRL, AntHBs, HIV negative, Toxoplasmosis non narrow.
Bilateral appendices, lower ear, granulomas, micrognathism with mandibular hypoplasia, coloboma located in the left eye and swelling apparently painful auricular implantation were detected.
Updated vaccination schedule.
1.
The infant is transferred from another hospital at 19 days of age with the diagnosis of urosepsis.
She was initially admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit to stabilize the condition by means of support measures and antibiotic therapy with ampicillin, gentamicin and cefoxime.
The patient underwent a renopelvic echography septum and apparent seizure - hydronephrosis bilateral and bladder wall thickening with right testicular swelling and apparent hyperechogenic images
Once the valve adheres to the parameters and with negative urine culture, we performed a serial voiding cystourethrography presenting dilation of the posterior bladder trabeculae without the presence of reflux, urethra reflux.
1.
Whole-body bone X-rays do not detect bone alterations or vertebral alterations.
We performed fulguration of the valves of the posterior urethra and right inguinal orchidectomy.
The postoperative course was uneventful.
We removed the catheter on the seventh postoperative day.
She was discharged with normal renal function, negative urine culture and correct diuresis.
At the fourth month of life he is hospitalized with the diagnosis of respiratory infection in the context of bronchiolitis, with urine cultures positive for polymicrobial flora is medicated with antibiotics, and discharged with antibiotic prophylaxis.
At the fifth month having aseptic urine, we performed intravenous urography and renal scintigraphy with GAM-3 and a hole test responding, showing bilateral ureteral dilation, right renal bifidity, with complete bladder function preserved bilateral bladder test.
We diagnosed bilateral non-obstructive ureteral dilations associated with pyelic bifidity.
We decided to perform controls every 6 months.
At the last follow-up, the 15-month-old child presented normal renal function, good diuresis and unaltered urinary sediments.
