T. I. is a 38-year-old woman who arrived at our unit, derived from a psychiatric unit of another hospital in Barcelona, for psychotic symptoms.
The patient suffered burns due to burns in her home that required a month of admission to the unit.
The patient reported no personal or family history of mental illness.
Likewise, toxic consumption.
The predominant antecedents were cesarean section five months ago, surgical wound infection, and second and third degree burns caused by the aforementioned.
The patient's psychobiography revealed that she was born in Casabla (Marruecos) and the sixth in nine brothers (5 men and 4 women).
Schoolchildren are up to twenty years old with good academic achievement (high school graduate and high school graduate), plus two years of complementary education.
The socio-occupational adjustment in his country was correct (several temporary jobs such as azafata, dependant, sport monitor, etc.).
She was married in her country a year and a half ago by family agreement (before she had never had a male partner or friends), and a month later she lived in the province of Girona (Spain) with her husband.
Since her marriage the patient devoted herself to household chores.
Your first child (a male) was born five months ago in a complicated delivery.
Two months ago, the patient’s home was declared ill-defined, which led to his admission to the psychiatric inpatient unit of a hospital.
Upon admission to our unit the patient was alert, conscious and disoriented temporo-spatially.
The contact with the patient was psychotic; her speech was scarce, in a low voice and with a monotonous tone of voice.
He referred a loss delirium and paranoid that did not specify us.
He was suspicious.
He reported hypothymia, fear dysthymia, and hearing loss in the form of "noise".
The examination showed poor fixation memory.
In the successive interviews with the patient’s spirits (some of them with the help of a translator), she said that two months after delivery she began a mood disorder that ranged between sadness or crying and crying.
Progressively there was a delusion of prejudice against her and her child, as well as hearing aids in the form of voces that criticized and gave orders.
In relation to this psychotic clinic, the patient explained anguish and intense fear of suffering damage (she or her child) as well as her voluntary isolation as a protective measure.
When exploring the hours prior to admission to the ED, the patient’s consciousness level and memory loss were explained by the fact that the patient’s suspicion could not be ruled out.
During his stay in the acute care unit, pharmacological treatment with Haloperidol was established up to 11.5 mg/d (with progressive dose reduction), Amisulpride (hasta Clocepna 800 mg/d.) and
A few hours after admission he was alert, conscious and oriented.
The first days the patient still suffers from fearfulcondition and itspicious, not leaving his room.
Slowly it improved contact, affection and psychotic symptoms; progressively disappearance of beliefs and took distance from delusional content to criticize it.
It gradually adapted to the dynamics of the unit.
It was considered key for the treatment and recovery of the patient to facilitate early and continued contact with their child and permissions to the family home; in fact, early maternal-filial contact was an important factor that accelerated the recovery.
Permissions were uneventful and the family adequately collaborated at all times.
Upon discharge, the patient was euthymic, had no positive psychotic psychopathology and was able to take care of her child (although confusion persisted). She was also suffering from secondary psychosis.
The patient and her family raised the possibility of performing her convalescence in Morocco, which we consider beneficial because it would be attended by professionals with the same therapeutic language and culture and would count on the support of her family of origin.
