A 57-year-old patient afflicted with an emergency situation at our hospital due to pain in the glans for one week, with a progressive appearance of a reddish lesion affecting the distal, retractable, fibrin portion.
His personal history included venous insufficiency with trophic changes in the lower limbs.
A smoker of 40 cigarettes per day for many years has been diagnosed in the urology service, three months ago, of benign prostatic hyperplasia subsidiary to medical treatment.
During the diagnostic balance of BPH, we proceeded to RT, PSA determination, ultrasounds etc. without providing these studies with noteworthy anomalies.
Current examination shows that the two anterior thirds of the glans are swelling, hardened, with necrotic appearance and abundant exudate and fibrin covering the area.
1.
The normality of urological studies and the total disorientation of the morbid process proceed to a minimum biopsy of the lesion.
We report necrosis phenomena, dense acute and chronic inflammatory infiltrate and dermis thrombosis.
This situation is characterized by the presence of a morbid process, but when there is a necrotic process that does not improve with the established symptomatic treatments, partial penile amputation is indicated.
glans were removed with a small portion of tapered bodies.
The Department of Anatomical Pathology reports the presence of a tumoral thrombosis of the vertebral body consistent with metastases from squamous cell carcinoma.
1.
This unusual situation arises from the location of the tumor and extension study.
Abdominal CT revealed small subcentimetric paraaortic, interaortocaval and root adenopathies in the retroperitoneal level.
Rest within normal limits.
Pathological studies seeking to diagnose a sudden onset and severe intensity shoulder pain were performed.
The referred pain is explained by the existence of a pathological fracture at the level of the upper third of the right physique due to a lesion typical radiology of metastasis.
Bone scintigraphy confirms the diagnosis of bone metastasis at the proximal third hum, without other distant pathological deposits.
The studies are followed and the evaluation by the Department of Otolaryngology is absolutely normal.
It enters the Digestive Service that performs endoscopic study and discovers at the level of the cardias mamelon and ulcerated mass of 3 cm corresponding to esophagus moderately differentiated diameter squamous carcinoma.
1.
Polychemotherapy was initiated but the patient's condition progressively worsened and died within a few months.
