A 16-year-old female student, with good general health, attended our unit, reporting having been raped two months before the interview.
He had not made the complaint for personal reasons.
He consulted about lesions in the mouth of approximately two weeks of evolution, which caused difficulties in the consolidation and consolidation.
When performing the anamnesis, the patient showed insecurity and concealment in her answers.
Examination of the oral mucosa revealed typical opalescent plaques, slightly elevated and greyish white of the syphilitic secondarism and other white lesions surrounded by a red halo, some multiple and some
Figure 1 shows white plaques in both commissures and, in the lower labial mucosa, in the midline, three more plaques.
The most common location is the groove bottom, white opalin, well circumscribed.
Another 2 cm diameter plate approximately shows a small central red zone and a semimucosal zone, a similar one is observed.
1.
Figure 2 shows similar plaques on the left edge of the tongue, near the tip and posterior area.
On the right edge, in the middle and posterior part, two plates of equal characteristics of 1.5 cm diameter each can also be seen.
Near the tip of the tongue, at the edges and extended to the ventral side, a surface of rough appearance can be observed in Figure 3.
Cholecystate and white deposits, which could not be removed scraped and which was clinically diagnosed as hairy leukoplakia (LV).
The patient gave authorization to perform an HIV test, which was performed the following day and whose result is delivered personally approximately 30 days later.
a fluorescent antibody test against treponema (FTA-ABS), a hematoagglutination test for treponema (TPHA) or a positive screening test for treponema (TPHA) were requested.
Biopsy of the mucosa was performed with presumptive diagnosis of villous leukoplakia.
Due to the high titers of serology obtained, classical treatment for syphilis was immediately established with injections of benzathine penicillin.
The result of the LV biopsy was confirmed.
The patient no longer attended the consultation and did not remove the result of HIV, which had given reagent for which it has been tried to locate the young woman to communicate her condition, control the effectiveness of the treatment.
