This is a 7-year-old girl, with no relevant pathological or neonatal history, who presents to consultation with a clinical picture of 8 months of evolution consisting of a nodular gingival lesion with a right upper diameter of approximately 3 x 3 cm.
Computed tomography (CT) showed a right maxillary tumor with antral induration and nasal cavity measuring 3 x 3 cm in diameter.
Establishing this diagnosis, the Pediatric Surgery Service indicates marginal resection of the maxillary tumor by sublabial approach and the histopathological report of the resection specimen reports a 3 cm maxillary chondrosarcoma with grade II differentiation.
The patient was subsequently referred to adjuvant radiotherapy treatment, which she did not attend.
One year later, the patient was readmitted to the hospital with tumor recurrence of 2 months.
At this time, the tumor shows accelerated growth, measuring 9 x 6 cm in diameter on CT, occupying the entire right maxilla and partially the left maxilla.
At this time, chemotherapy was indicated for tumor cytoreduction and the patient received 9 cycles with Doxurrubicin 30 mg per m2 body surface area; Vincristine 1.5 mg per m2, Mesna 300 mg per desired effect.
This included evaluation by the Plastic Surgery, Oncological Surgery and Head and Neck Surgery Departments, who decided to admit the patient to a bilateral submaximal surgery using a blade colectomy.
The resection specimen was 10 x 8 cm, grayish, firm, with reddish mucosa, hemorrhagic and necrosis areas of 30%.
The histopathological study performed with light microphotography and hematoxylin/eosin staining confirmed the diagnosis of II degree chondrosarcoma, cellular pleomorphism with 2 mitotic edges per field and with vascular tumor free.
1.
In the same surgical procedure we performed partial and temporary maxillary reconstruction with titanium miniplates and alloplastic prosthesis.
1.
After 8 months of follow-up after radical surgery, the patient has good general condition, with an adequate urethral process, with no evidence of local or distant tumor activity evidenced by both clinical and CT.
