He was a 30-year-old heterosexual male with a personal history of low school performance and an overprotective parenting pattern.
Stable partner relationship for several years and a daughter.
At the time of the exploration, there were two cases of sexual aggression pending, among which there was a week difference between them, using both an intimidating instrument (navaja) and presenting the second shoulder resistance.
She had no criminal history.
Imputed
In relation to these, he narrates the introduction of an unknown “who liked him” in his trough, under intimidation with a white weapon, to which he touched and gave him a kiss after convincing her.
After about a week, the same sequence was repeated again, although on this occasion the victim tried to escape from the kitchen, causing injuries when subjected by the expert.
The antecedent of sexual defiance was unknown by both men and women, but there was a clear frustration related to the expectations of maintaining a sexual relationship with them
Relevant findings in the psychosexual sphere
It highlighted the existence of a low level of sexual activation, as well as a high frequency in the practice of different sexual activities (coit and mastication).
The expert presented various deviant sexual behaviors, which began with practices with little interaction with the victims (voyeurism with masturbation), producing patulatinely a verbal increase of the character of the interaction, both verbally attributed to
Habitual pornography consumer and occasional prostituation consumer.
Psychopathological findings
No significant alterations were found in axis I. As while in prison and prior to forensic medical examination a diagnosis of mild mental retardation was made by the psychologist working in a non-governmental organization mental skills scale (presenting a valid mental retardation psychometric scale).
In regard to axis II, the inmate showed typical features of the borderline personality disorder construct: verbal cognitions related to the same self-esteem but also pointed to a low level of neglect by her partner, having developed explicit self-esteem strategies to avoid abandonment.
High mentality manifested in different areas of his private life, as well as important reactivity of his state of mind.
In addition, the female internal sexuality manifested itself as a negative attitude towards the minimization of the violence against her partner and the victims, even blaming her partner on the imputed facts due to her sexual violence against her partner, and
The functional analysis of the reported behaviors, as well as those related to sexual aggression, showed an association between the practice of these sexual behaviors and cognitions associated with self-esteem, consistent with frustration and sexual abandonment.
