A 5 year old male with an anodyne personal history and adequate pediatric control.
Parents only emphasize that he was a child who did not eat much.
A week before the event, she had a cold upper airway without fever or other associated signs.
Parents suffering from nonspecific abdominal discomfort accompanied by increased intestinal noise and nausea without vomiting were also affected.
He is evaluated by his pediatrician in the area, who does not appreciate specific pathology and prescribes soft diet.
At 0 hours of the day of death, the child developed abdominal pain unfocused.
In the following hours she has nausea and several vomiting episodes first food and finally mucous membranes without traces or bilious.
At 5 p.m., they feel weak and cold and give you a warm bath, checking the bathroom that does not respond to stimuli.
The assistance of an emergency team is requested, who finds him in a situation of cardiorespiratory arrest and initiates ABPR maneuvers without success.
Judicial autopsy was performed.
This is a male child of 1.17 m height with no signs of obesity or malnutrition, pale skin and mucous membranes.
Complete autopsy was performed with opening of the three cavities and anterior cervical plane, following the recommendations of the Council of Europe [1].
No significant pathological alterations or developmental abnormalities were observed.
During the autopsy examination of the abdominal cavity a collection of seropositivity in approximate quantity of 0,5.
The stomach has few food traces without traces of coffee or bilious remains.
The duodenum has preserved walls and normal intestinal papilla content.
About 20 cms from the duodenojejunal angle, the color of the intestinal walls becomes dark red, maintaining this color change up to about 5 cms from the ileocecal valve.
This last segment of the ileum is clearly narrowed with fibrous changes.
In the interior of the small intestine segment with parietal changes, there is an approximate amount of 1.5.
1.
The position of the intestinal loops is altered by the presence of an anomaly in the closure of the cecum mesentery.
It presents an ojal of about 3 cm in diameter located immediately next to the cecum, which shows the extensive passage of the small intestine asses and part of the descending colon, found in the right interlocated tract.
1.
The cause of death is estimated due to hemorrhagic shock secondary to mechanical obstruction and necrosis of the small intestine by transmesocolic herniation with internal herniation of the small intestine and large intestine.
