A 36-year-old woman with no history of paresthesia of the thumb of her right hand followed 2 days later by weakness for pinch movement.
Two days later, paresis appeared for dorsiflexion of the left foot and painful paresthesias on the back of the foot.
The patient was admitted one week after the beginning of the week of evolution. Grade 3 paresis was observed on the Medical Research Council scale (MRC) of the opponent and second degree of left tactile lower limb hypoesthesia and right thumb muscles (LCP).
The patient was in good general condition without fever, skin lesions or lymphadenopathy.
Five days after admission, new alterations appeared, consisting of deltoid and triceps triceps paresis grade 3 MRC and paresthesias in the left arm and both external brachial bread and its neurological bread.
Anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibody, anticardiolipin antibody, anti-cardiolipin antibody, anti-cirrhosis, Erythropoietin antibody, Erythropoietin
The findings of these examinations were within the normal range.
During admission, two neurophysiological studies are performed, as detailed in Table 1.
The first, performed 9 days after the onset of symptoms, highlighted the absence of motor potential (MP) of the left EPC and a reduction in the amplitude of the MB of the right median with stimulation in the wrist, elbow and elbow.
The electromyography (EMG) of the right PCA showed a simple maximal effort pattern with few motor unit potentials (MPUs) with normal characteristics and no spontaneous activity.
No spontaneous or voluntary activity was recorded in the left anterior tibial (TA).
In the second study, carried out 15 days later, changes were observed in the conductive hearing loss of several nerves, which had not previously shown alterations.
These included a reduction in the amplitude of the sensory potential of the left superficial peroneal nerve, absence of overlapping responses in the southern nerves, and a decrease in the right median nerve from the first and third fingers.
As in the first study, no MB was obtained from the left EPC.
The amplitude of the MBs of the right median was reduced, including that corresponding to stimulation in the palm, which had decreased compared to the previous study.
Spontaneous activity in the form of fixations and positive waves was recorded in the EMG, abundant in the right PCA and scarce in TA and left pedis.
As in the previous study, the H reflex and the F waves of cubital, posterior tibial, left median and right EPC were normal and no proximal blockades of the Er cubital conduction were observed in the left median.
1.
A biopsy of the left sural nerve showed axonal degeneration and perivascular inflammatory infiltrate compatible with infarction due to vasculitis.
1.
Treatment was established with 60 mg/day of prednisone, with subjective improvement of muscle weakness and painful paresthesias.
The prednisone dose was then gradually reduced.
At 9 months, 45 mg every other day, improvement in paresthesia in the lower limbs and proximal strength in the left upper limb.
Sensory-motor deficit persisted in the right hand and marked paresis in the left EPC territory.
A third neurophysiological study performed at 9 months showed no significant changes compared to the previous one, except for the recurrence of low amplitude sensory potential in the right sural nerve.
In the EMG moderate spontaneous activity persisted in right PCA and left TA, with markedly deficient maximal effort patterns and MUAPs with irregular active reinnervation signs (polyphasic and polyturnal) e
